<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><title>The Plays of William Shakespeare</title>
<style type="text/css">
.flow {
  margin: 0;
  font-size: 1em;
}
.flow .pagebreak {
  page-break-before: always;
}
.flow p {
  text-align: left;
  text-indent: 0;
  margin-top: 0;
  margin-bottom: 0.5em;
}
.flow .gstxt_sup {
  font-size: 75%;
  position: relative;
  bottom: 0.5em;
}
.flow .gstxt_sub {
  font-size: 75%;
  position: relative;
  top: 0.3em;
}
.flow .gstxt_hlt {
  background-color: yellow;
}
.flow div.gtxt_inset_box {
  padding: 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em;
  margin: 1em 1em 1em 1em;
  border: 1px black solid;
}
.flow div.gtxt_footnote {
  padding: 0 0.5em 0 0.5em;
  border: 1px black dotted;
}
.flow .gstxt_underline {
  text-decoration: underline;
}
.flow .gtxt_heading {
  text-align: center;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
  font-size: 150%;
  font-weight: bold;
  font-variant: small-caps;
}
.flow .gtxt_h1_heading {
  text-align: center;
  font-size: 120%;
  font-weight: bold;
}
.flow .gtxt_h2_heading {
  font-size: 110%;
  font-weight: bold;
}
.flow .gtxt_h3_heading {
  font-weight: bold;
}
.flow .gtxt_lineated {
  margin-left: 2em;
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
  white-space: pre-wrap;
}
.flow .gtxt_lineated_code {
  margin-left: 2em;
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
  white-space: pre-wrap;
  font-family: monospace;
}
.flow .gtxt_quote {
  margin-left: 2em;
  margin-right: 2em;
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
}
.flow .gtxt_list_entry {
  margin-left: 2ex;
  text-indent: -2ex;
}
.flow .gimg_graphic {
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
}
.flow .gimg_table {
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
}
.flow {
  font-family: serif;
}
.flow span,p {
  font-family: inherit;
}

</style></head>
<body>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633333968839 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR37'></a>
<div id='block.52.0.0.box.245.367.480.217.q.50' class='gtxt_body' style='margin-bottom: 1.5em;'>
<a id='GBS.PR37.w.0.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body gtxt_lineated' style='font-size:112%;' id='para.52.0.0.box.245.367.480.217.q.50'><i>J 0 H N S O N&#39;S </i><br/>  PREFACE* <br/></p>
</div>
<div id='block.52.1.0.box.58.918.843.674.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR37.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.52.1.0.box.58.918.843.516.q.60'><span style='font-variant:small-caps;'>That </span>praises are without reason lavished on the dead, ajid that the honours due only to excellence are paid to antiquity, is a complaint likely to be always continued by those, who, being able to add nothing to truth, hope for eminence from the heresies of paradox; or those, who, being forced by disappointment upon consolatory expedients, are willing to hope from posterity what the present age refuses, and flatter themselves that the regard which is yet denied by envy, will be at last bestowed by time.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR37.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.52.1.1.box.60.1448.837.144.q.60'>Antiquity, like every other quality that attracts the notice of mankind, has undoubtedly votaries that reverence it, not from reason, but from prejudice.<a id='GBS.PR38.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.53.1.0.box.173.189.858.559.q.60'>
Some seem to admire indiscriminately whatever has been long preserved, without considering that time has sometimes co-operated with chance; all perhaps are more willing to honour past than present excellence; and the mind contemplates genius through the shades of age, as the eye surveys the sun through artificial opacity. The great contention of criticism is to find the faults of the moderns and the beauties of the ancients. While an author is yet living, we estimate his powers by his worst performance; and when he is dead, we rate them by his best.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633335382656 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR38'></a>
<div id='block.53.1.0.box.173.189.865.1384.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR38.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.53.1.1.box.174.760.864.813.q.60'>To works, however, of which the excellence is not absolute and definite, but gradual and comparative; to works not raised upon principles demonstrative and &#39;scientifick, but appealing wholly to observation and experience, no other test can be applied than length of duration and continuance of esteem. What mankind have long possessed they have often examined and compared, and if they persist to value the possession, it is because frequent comparisons have confirmed opinion in its favour. As among the works of nature no man can properly call a river deep, or a mountain high, without the knowledge of many mountains, and many rivers<i>; </i>so in the production of genius, nothing can be styled excellent till it has been compared with other works of the same kind. Demonstration immediately displays its power, and has<a id='GBS.PR39.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.54.1.0.box.76.207.863.763.q.60'>
nothing to hope or fear from the flux of years-; but works tentative and experimental must be estimated by their proportion to the general and collective ability of man, as it is discovered in a long succession of endeavours. Of the first building that was raised, it might be with certainty determined that it was round or square: but whether it was spacious or lofty must have been referred to time.. The Pythagorean scale of numbers was at once discovered to be perfect; but the poems of Homer we yet know not to transcend the common limits of human intelligence, but by remarking, that nation after nation, and century after century, has been able to do little more than transpose his incidents, new name his characters, and paraphrase his sentiments.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633336447749 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR39'></a>
<div id='block.54.1.0.box.76.207.863.1393.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR39.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.54.1.1.box.80.987.857.394.q.60'>The reverence due to writings that have long sub-* sisted arises therefore not from any credulous confid-&#39; ence in the superior wisdom of past ages&gt; or gloomy persuasion of the degeneracy of mankind, but is the consequence of acknowledged and indubitable positions, that what has been longest known has been tnost considered, and what is most considered is best understood.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR39.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.54.1.2.box.83.1403.852.197.q.60'>The poet, of whose works I have undertaken the revision, may now begin to assume the dignity of an ancient, and claim the privilege of an established fame and prescriptive veneration. He has long outlived<a id='GBS.PR40.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.55.1.0.box.159.200.864.972.q.60'>
his century, the term commonly fixed as the test of literary merit. Whatever advantages he might once derive from personal allusions, local customs, or temporary opinions, have for many years been lost; and every topick of merriment, or motive of sorrow, which the modes of artificial life afforded him, now only obscure the scenes which they once illuminated. The effects of favour and competition are at an end; the tradition of his friendships and his enmities has perished; his works support no opinion with arguments, nor supply any faction with invectives; they can neither indulge vanity, nor gratify malignity; but are read without any other reason than the desire of pleasure, and are therefore praised only as pleasure is obtained<i>; </i>yet, thus unassisted by interest or passion, they have past through variations of taste and changes of manners, and, as they devolved from one generation to another, have received new honours at every transmission.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633338393327 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR40'></a>
<div id='block.55.1.0.box.159.200.864.1394.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR40.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.55.1.1.box.161.1185.853.355.q.60'>But because human judgment, though it be gradually gaining upon certainty, never becomes infallible; and approbation, though long continued, may yet be only the approbation of prejudice or fashion; it is proper to enquire, by what peculiarities of excellence Shakspeare has gained and kept the favour of bis countrymen.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR40.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.55.1.2.box.198.1554.811.40.q.70'>Nothing can please many, and please long, but</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633339274846 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR41'></a>
<div id='block.56.1.0.box.85.201.863.1384.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR41.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.56.1.0.box.85.201.863.405.q.60'>just representations of general nature. Particular manners can be known to few, and therefore few only can judge how nearly they are copied. The irregular combinations of fanciful invention may delight awhile, by that novelty of which the common satiety of life sends us all in quest; the pleasures of sudden wonder are soon exhausted, and the mind can only repose on the stability of truth.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR41.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.56.1.1.box.88.619.859.870.q.60'>Shakspeare is above all writers, at least above all modern writers, the poet of nature; the poet that holds up to his readers a faithful mirror of manners and of life. His characters are not modified by the customs of particular places, unpractised by the rest of the world; by the peculiarities of studies or professions, which can operate but upon small numbers} or by the accidents of transient fashions or temporary opinions: they are the genuine progeny of common humanity, such as the world will always supply, and observation will always find. His persons act and speak by the influence of those general passions and principles by which all minds are agitated, and the whole system of life is continued in motion. In the writings of other poets a character is too often an individual; in those of Shakspeare it is commonly a tpecies.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR41.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.56.1.2.box.87.1497.852.88.q.60'>It is from this wide extension of design that so much instruction is derived. It is this which fills the<a id='GBS.PR42.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.57.1.0.box.152.197.855.557.q.60'>
plays of Shakspeare with practical axioms and domestic wisdom. It was said of Euripides, that every verse was a precept; and it may be said of Shakspeare, that from his works may be collected a system of civil and oeconomical prudence. Yet his real power is not shewn in the splendor of particular passages, but by the progress of his fable, and the tenor of his dialogue; and he that tries to recommend him by select quotations, will succeed like the pedant in Hierocles, who, when he offered his house to sale, carried a brick in his pocket as a specimen.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633340339865 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR42'></a>
<div id='block.57.1.0.box.152.197.858.1381.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR42.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.57.1.1.box.155.770.855.808.q.60'>It will not easily be imagined how much Shakspeare excels in accommodating his sentiments to real life, but by comparing him with other authors. It was observed of the ancient schools of declamation, that the more diligently they were frequented, the more was the student disqualified for the world, because he found nothing there which he should ever meet in any other place. The same remark may be applied to every stage but that of Shakspeare. The theatre, when it is under any other direction, is peopled by such characters as were never seen, conversing in a language which was never heard, upon topicks which will never arise in the commerce of mankind. But the dialogue of this author is often so. evidently determined by the incident which produces it, and is pursued with so much ease and simplicity,<a id='GBS.PR43.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.58.1.0.box.100.197.862.136.q.60'>
that it seems scarcely to claim the merit of fiction, but lo have been gleaned by diligent selection out of common conversation, and common occurrences.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633341344787 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR43'></a>
<div id='block.58.1.0.box.94.197.868.1383.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR43.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.58.1.1.box.94.353.863.1017.q.60'>Upon every other stage the universal agent is love&gt; by whose power all good and evil is distributed, and every action quickened or retarded. To bring a lover, a lady, and a rival into the fable; to entangle them in contradictory obligations, perplex them with oppositions of interest, and harass them with violence of desires inconsistent with each other; to make them meet in rapture, and part in agony; to fill their mouths with hyperbolical joy and outrageous sorrow; to distress them as nothing human ever was distressed; to deliver them as nothing human ever was delivered, is the business of a modern dramatist. For this, probability is violated, life is misrepresented, and language is depraved. But love is only one of many passions, and as it has no great influence upon the sum of life, it has little operation in the dramas of a poet, who caught his ideas from the living world, and exhibited only what he saw before him. He knew, that any other passion, as it was regular or exorbitant, was a cause of happiness or calamity.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR43.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.58.1.2.box.97.1384.853.196.q.60'>Characters thus ample and general were not easily discriminated and preserved, yet perhaps no poet ever kept his personages more distinct from each other. I will not say with Pope, that every speech<a id='GBS.PR44.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.59.1.0.box.148.195.862.336.q.60'>
may be assigned to the proper speaker, because many speeches there are which have nothing characteristical; but, perhaps, though some may be equally adapted to every person, it will be difficult to find any that can be properly transferred from the present possessor to another claimant The choice is right, when there is reason for choice.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633343094514 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR44'></a>
<div id='block.59.1.0.box.144.195.868.1390.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR44.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.59.1.1.box.144.554.868.1031.q.60'>Other dramatists can only gain attention by hyperbolical or aggravated characters, by fabulous and unexampled excellence or depravity, as the writers of barbarous romances invigorated the reader by a giant and a dwarf; and he that should form his expectation of human affairs from the play, or from the tale, would be equally deceived. Shakspeare has no heroes; his scenes are occupied only by men who act and speak as the reader thinks that he should himself have spoken or acted on the same occasion: even where the agency is supernatural, the dialogue is level with life. Other writers disguise the most natural passions and most frequent incidents; so that he who contemplates them in the book will not know them in the world: Shakspeare approximates the remote, and familiarizes the wonderful; the event which he represents will not happen, but if it were possible, its effects would probably be such as he has assigned; and it may be said, that he has not only shewn human nature as it acts in real exigencies, but as it</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633343847228 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR45'></a>
<div id='block.60.1.0.box.88.192.863.1387.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR45.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.60.1.0.box.90.192.851.91.q.70'>would be found in trials to which it cannot be exposed.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR45.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.60.1.1.box.89.298.856.398.q.60'>This therefore is the praise of Shakspeare, that his drama is the mirror of life; that he who has mazed his imagination, in following the phantoms which other writers raise up before him, may here be cured of his delirious ecstasies, by reading human sentiments in human language; by scenes from which a hermit may estimate the transactions of the world, and a confessor predict the progress of the passions.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR45.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.60.1.2.box.88.709.863.870.q.60'>His adherence to general nature has exposed him to the censure of criticks, who form their judgments upon narrower principles. Dennis and Rymer think his Romans not sufficiently Roman; and Voltaire censures his kings as not completely royal. Dennis is offended, that Menenius, a senator of Rome, should play the buffoon; and Voltaire perhaps thinks decency violated when the Danish usurper is represented as a drunkard. But Shakspeare always makes nature predominate over accident; and if he preserves the essential character, is not very careful of distinctions superinduced and adventitious. His story requires Romans or kings, but he thinks only on men. He knew that Rome, like every other city, had men of all dispositions; and wanting a buffoon, he went into the senate-house for that which the senate-house would certainly have afforded him. He was inclined<a id='GBS.PR46.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.61.1.0.box.142.192.876.401.q.60'>
to shew an usurper and a murderer not only odious, but despicable; he therefore added drunkenness to his other qualities, knowing that kings love wine like other men, and that wine exerts its natural power upon kings. These are the petty cavils of petty minds; a poet overlooks the casual distinction of . country and condition, as a painter, satisfied with the figure, neglects the drapery.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633344801151 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR46'></a>
<div id='block.61.1.0.box.142.192.876.1384.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR46.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.61.1.1.box.153.606.859.189.q.60'>The censure which he has incurred by mixing co&#171; mick and tragick scenes, as it extends to all his works, deserves more consideration. Let the fact be first stated, and then examined.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR46.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.61.1.2.box.146.814.866.657.q.60'>Shakspeare&#39;s plays are not in the rigorous and critical sense either tragedies or comedies, but compositions of a distinct kind; exhibiting the real state of sublunary nature, which partakes of good and evil, joy and sorrow, mingled with endless variety of proportion and innumerable modes of combination; and expressing the course of the world, in which the loss of one is the gain of another; in which, at the same time, the reveller is hasting to his wine, and the mourner burying his friend; in which the malignity of one is sometimes defeated by the frolick of another; and many mischiefs and many benefits are done and hindered without design.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR46.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.61.1.3.box.145.1483.857.93.q.60'>Out of this chaos of mingled purposes and casualties the ancient poets., according to the laws which<a id='GBS.PR47.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.62.1.0.box.94.185.857.507.q.60'>
Custom had prescribed, selected some the crimes of men, and some their absurdities 3 some the momentous vicissitudes of life, and some the lighter occurrences; some the terrors of distress, and some the gayeties of prosperity. Thus rose the two modes of imitation, known by the names of <i>tragedy </i>and <i>comedy, </i>compositions intended to promote different ends by contrary means, and considered as so little allied, that I do not recollect among the Greeks or Romans a single writer who attempted both.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633345560716 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR47'></a>
<div id='block.62.1.0.box.90.185.861.1390.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR47.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.62.1.1.box.90.705.856.349.q.60'>Shakspeare has united the powers of exciting laughter and sorrow not only in one mind, but in one composition. Almost all his plays are divided between serious and ludicrous characters, and, in the successive evolutions of the design, sometimes produce seriousness and sorrow, and sometimes levity and laughter.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR47.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.62.1.2.box.90.1068.857.507.q.60'>That this is a practice contrary to the rules of .criticism will be readily allowed; but there is always an appeal open from criticism to nature. The end of writing is to instruct; the endof poetry is to instruct by pleasing. That the mingled drama may convey all the instruction of tragedy or comedy cannot be deDied, because it includes both in its alternations of exhibition, and approaches nearer than either to the appearance of life, by shewing how great machinations and slender designs may promote or obviate one an<a id='GBS.PR48.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.63.1.0.box.146.179.854.91.q.70'>other, and the high and the low co-operate in the general system by unavoidable concatenation.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633346526648 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR48'></a>
<div id='block.63.1.0.box.143.179.863.1391.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR48.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.63.1.1.box.143.282.863.923.q.60'>It is objected, that by this change of scenes the passions are interrupted in their progression, and that the principal event, being not advanced by a due gradation of preparatory incidents, wants at last the power to move, which constitutes the perfection of dramatick poetry. This reasoning is so specious, that it is received as true even by those who in daily experience feel it to be false. The interchanges of mingled scenes seldom fail to produce the intended vicissitudes of passion. Fiction cannot move so much, but that the attention may be easily transferred; and though it must be allowed that pleasing melancholy be sometimes interrupted by unwelcome levity, yet let it be considered likewise, that melancholy is often not pleasing, and that the disturbance of one man may be the relief of another; that different auditors have different habitudes; and that, upon the whole, all pleasure consists in variety.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR48.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.63.1.2.box.149.1214.855.194.q.60'>The players, who in their edition divided our author&#39;s works into comedies, histories, and tragedies, seem not to have distinguished the three kinds by any very exact or definite ideas.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR48.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.63.1.3.box.151.1422.851.148.q.60'>An action which ended happily to the principal persons, however serious or distressful through its intermediate incidents, in their opinion constituted<a id='GBS.PR49.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.64.1.0.box.74.200.850.187.q.50'>
a comedy. This idea of a comedy continued long amongst us, and plays were written, which, by changing the catastrophe, were tragedies to-day, and comedies to-morrow.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633347244475 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR49'></a>
<div id='block.64.1.0.box.68.200.856.1431.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR49.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.64.1.1.box.74.411.849.245.q.60'>Tragedy was not in those times a poem of more general dignity or elevation than comedy; it required only a calamitous conclusion, with which the common criticism of that age was satisfied, whatever lighter pleasure it afforded in its progress. i</p>
<a id='GBS.PR49.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.64.1.2.box.68.669.853.452.q.60'>History was a series of actions, with no other than chronological succession, independent on each other, and without any tendency to introduce and regulate the conclusion. It is not always very nicely distinguished from tragedy. . There is not much nearer approach to unity of action in the tragedy of <i>Antony and Cleopatra, </i>than in the history of <i>Richard the Second. </i>But a history might be continued through many plays; as it had no plan, it had no limits.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR49.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.64.1.3.box.72.1134.847.451.q.60'>Through all these denominations of the drama, Shakspeare&#39;s mode of composition is the same; an interchange of seriousness and merriment, by which the mind is softened at one time, and exhilarated at another. But whatever be his purpose, whether to gladden or depress, or to conduct the story, without vehemence or emotion, through tracts of easy and. familiar dialogue, he never fails to attain his purpose; as he commands us, we laugh, or mourn, or sit silenj;</p>
<a id='GBS.PR49.w.1.4.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.64.1.4.box.112.1608.417.23.q.60'><span style='font-variant:small-caps;'>Vol. </span>i. e</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633348025877 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR50'></a>
<div id='block.65.1.0.box.166.196.866.1388.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR50.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.65.1.0.box.168.196.855.84.q.80'>with quiet expectation, in tranquillity without indifference.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR50.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.65.1.1.box.169.301.861.456.q.60'>When Shakspeare&#39;s plan is understood, most of the criticisms of Rymer and Voltaire vanish away. The play of <i>Uumlet </i>is opened without impropriety, by two sentinels; lago bellows at Brabantio&#39;s window, without injury to the scheme of the play, though in terms which a modern audience would not easily endure; the character of Polonius is seasonable and useful; and the Grave-diggers themselves may be heard with applause.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR50.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.65.1.2.box.166.769.866.815.q.60'>Shakspeare engaged in dramatic poetry with the world open before him; the rules of the ancients were yet known to few<i>; </i>the public judgment was unformed; he had no example of such fame as might force him upon imitation, nor criticks of such authority as might restrain his extravagance: he therefore indulged his natural disposition, and his disposition, as Rymer has remarked, led him to comedy. In tragedy he often writes with great appearance of toil and study, what is written at last with little felicity $ but in his comick scenes, he seems to produce without labour, what no labour can improve. In tragedy he is always struggling after some occasion to be comick, but in comedy he seems to repose, or to luxuriate, as in a mode of thinking congenial to his nature. In bis tragick scenes there is always -something wanting, but<a id='GBS.PR51.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.66.1.0.box.61.193.852.239.q.60'>
his comedy often surpasses expectation or desire. His comedy pleases by the thoughts and the language, and his tragedy for the greater part by incident and action. His tragedy seems to be skill, his comedy to be instinct.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633349070815 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR51'></a>
<div id='block.66.1.0.box.58.193.858.1391.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR51.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.66.1.1.box.58.454.858.1130.q.60'>The force of his comick scenes has suffered little diminution from the changes made by a century and a half, in manners, or in words. As his personages act upon principles arising from genuine passion, very little modified by particular forms, their pleasures and vexations are communicable to all times and to all places; they are natural, and therefore durable; the adventitious peculiarities of personal habits, are only superficial dies, bright and pleasing for a little while, yet soon fading to a dim tinct, without any remains of former lustre; but the discriminations of true passion are the colours of nature; they pervade the whole mass, and can only perish with the body that exhibits them. The accidental compositions of heterogeneous modes are dissolved by the chance that combined them; but the uniform simplicity of primitive qualities neither admits increase, nor suffers decay. The sand heaped by one flood is scattered by another, but the rock always continues in its place. The stream of time, which is continually washing the dissoluble fabricks of other poets, passes without injury by the adamant of Shakspeare.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633349935425 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR52'></a>
<div id='block.67.1.0.box.176.207.867.1392.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR52.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.67.1.0.box.176.207.867.975.q.60'>If there be, what I believe there is, in every nation, a style which never becomes obsolete, a certain mode of phraseology so consonant and congenial to the analogy and principles of its respective language, as to remain settled and unaltered; this style is probably to be sought in the common intercourse of life, among those who speak only to be understood, without ambition of elegance. The polite are always catching modish innovations, and the learned depart from established forms of speech, in hope of finding or making better; those who wish for distinction forsake the vulgar, when the vulgar is right; but there is a conversation above grossness and below refinement, where propriety resides, and where this poet seems to have gathered his comick dialogue. He is therefore more agreeable to the ears of the present age than any other author equally remote, and among his other excellencies deserves to be studied as one of the original masters of our language.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR52.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.67.1.1.box.181.1196.861.403.q.60'>These observations are to be considered not as unexceptionably constant, but as containing general and predominant truth. Shakspeare&#39;s familiar dialogue is affirmed to be smooth and clear, yet not wholly without ruggedness or difficulty; as a country may be eminently fruitful, though it has spots unfit for cultivation: his characters are praised as natural, though their sentiments are sometimes forced, and<a id='GBS.PR53.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.68.1.0.box.62.174.846.133.q.60'>
their actions improbable; as the earth upon the whole is spherical, though its surface is varied with protu-. berances and cavities.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633351068878 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR53'></a>
<div id='block.68.1.0.box.62.174.862.1342.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR53.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.68.1.1.box.66.330.845.400.q.60'>Shakspeare with his excellencies has likewise faults, and faults sufficient to obscure and overwhelm any other merit. I shall shew them in the proportion in which they appear to me, without envious malignity or superstitious veneration. No question can be more innocently discussed than a dead poet&#39;s pretensions to renown; and little regard is due to that bigotry which sets candour higher than truth.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR53.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.68.1.2.box.66.743.858.773.q.60'>His first defect is that to which may be imputed most of the evil in books or in men. He sacrifices virtue to convenience, and is so much more careful to please than to instruct, that he seems to write without any moral purpose. From his writings indeed a system of social duty may be selected, for he that thinks reasonably must think morally; but his precepts and axioms drop casually from him; he makes no just distribution of good or evil, nor is always careful to shew in the virtuous a disapprobation of the wicked; he carries his persons indifferently through right and wrong, and at the close dismisses them without further care, and leaves their examples to operate by chance. This fault the barbarity of his age cannot extenuate; for it is always a writer&#39;s<a id='GBS.PR54.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.69.1.0.box.181.195.856.93.q.70'>
duty to make the world better, and justice is a virtue independent on time or place.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633352091446 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR54'></a>
<div id='block.69.1.0.box.177.195.863.1337.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR54.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.69.1.1.box.180.300.856.402.q.60'>The,, plots are often so loosely formed, that a very slight consideration may improve them, and so carelessly pursued, that he seems not always fully to comprehend his own design. He omits opportunities of instructing or delighting, which the train of his story seems to force upon him, and apparently rejects those exhibitions which would be more affecting, for the sake of those which are more easy.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR54.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.69.1.2.box.179.714.858.349.q.60'>It may be observed, that in many of his plays the latter part is evidently neglected. When he found himself near the end of his work, and in view of his reward, he shortened the labour to snatch the profit. He therefore remits his efforts where he should most vigorously exert them, and his catastrophe is improbably produced or imperfectly represented.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR54.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.69.1.3.box.177.1076.863.456.q.60'>He had no regard to distinction of time or place, but gives to one age or nation, without scruple, the customs, institutions, and opinions of another, at the expence not only of likelihood, but of possibility. These faults Pope has endeavoured, with more zeal than judgment, to transfer to his imagined interpolators. We need not wonder to find Hector quoting Aristotle, when we see the loves of Theseus and Hippolyla combined with the Gothick mythology of<a id='GBS.PR55.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.70.1.0.box.83.179.861.294.q.60'>
,fairies. Shakspeare, indeed, was not the only violator of chronology, for in the same age, Sidney, who wanted not the advantages of learning, has, in his <i>Arcadia, </i>confounded the pastoral with the feudal times, the days of innocence, quiet, and security, with those of turbulence, violence, and adventure.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633353059189 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR55'></a>
<div id='block.70.1.0.box.80.179.864.1396.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR55.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.70.1.1.box.80.492.864.715.q.60'>In his comick scenes he is seldom very successful, when he engages his characters in reciprocations of smartness and contests of sarcasm; their jests are commonly gross, and their pleasantry licentious; neither his gentlemen nor his ladies have much delicacy, nor are sufficiently distinguished from his clowns by any appearance of refined manners. Whether he represented the real conversation of his time is not easy to determine; the reign of Elizabeth is commonly supposed to have been a time of stateliness, formality, and reserve, yet perhaps the relaxations of that severity were not very elegant. There must, however, have been always some modes of gaiety preferable to others, and a writer ought to choose the best.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR55.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.70.1.2.box.82.1221.859.354.q.60'>In tragedy his performance seems constantly to be worse, as his labour is more. The effusions of passion, which exigence forces out, are for the most part striking and energetick; but whenever he solicits his invention, or strains his faculties, the offspring of his throes is tumour, meanness, tediousness, and obscurity.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633354138343 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR56'></a>
<div id='block.71.1.0.box.150.174.876.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR56.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.71.1.0.box.156.174.865.556.q.60'>In narration he affects a disproportionate pomp of diction, ancka wearisome train of circumlocution, and tells the incident imperfectly in many words, which blight have been more plainly delivered in few. Narration in dramatick poetry is naturally tedious, as it is unanimated and inactive, and obstructs the progress of the action; it should therefore always be rapid, and enlivened by frequent interruption. Shakspeare found &#8226;it an encumbrance, and instead of lightening it by brevity, endeavoured to recommend it by dignity and splendour.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR56.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.71.1.1.box.150.745.876.714.q.60'>His declamations or set speeches are commonly cold and weak, for his power was the power of nature; when he endeavoured, like other tragick writers, to catch opportunities of amplification, and instead of &#8226;inquiring what the occasion demanded, to shew how &#39;much his stores of knowledge could supply, he seldom ^escapes without the pity or resentment of his reader. *. It is incident to him to be now and then entangled with an unwieldy sentiment, which he cannot well &#39;express, and will not reject; he straggles with it a &#39;while, and if it continues stubborn, comprises it hi -words such as occur, and leaves it to be disentangled and evolved by those who have more leisure to bestow ,&#39;upon it. &#39;.-,&#8226;!</p>
<a id='GBS.PR56.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.71.1.2.box.150.1470.863.93.q.60'>. Not that always where the language, is intricate the thought is subtle, or the image always. great<a id='GBS.PR57.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.72.1.0.box.76.179.860.244.q.60'>
wliere the line is bulky; the equality of words to things is very often neglected, and trivial sentiments and vulgar ideas disappoint the attention, to which they are recommended by sonorous epithets and, swelling figures.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633355346301 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR57'></a>
<div id='block.72.1.0.box.76.179.863.1440.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR57.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.72.1.1.box.82.436.855.608.q.60'>But the admirers of this great poet have never less reason to indulge their hopes of supreme excellence, than when he seems fully resolved to sink, them in dejection, and mollify them with tender emotions by the fall of greatness, the danger of innocence, or the crosses of love. What he does best, he soon ceases to do. He is not long soft and pafhetick without some idle conceit, or contemptible equivocation. He no sooner begins to move, than, he counteracts himself; and terror and pity, as they are rising in the mind, are checked and blasted by sudden frigidity.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR57.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.72.1.2.box.85.1059.854.560.q.60'>A quibble is to Shakspeare, what luminous vapours are to the traveller: he follows it at all adventures<i>; </i>it is sure to lead him out of his way, and sure to engulf him in the mire. It has some malignant power over his mind, and its fascinations are irresistible. Whatever be the dignity or profundity of his disquisitions, whether he be enlarging knowledge or exalting affection, whether he be amusing attention with incidents, .or enchanting it in suspense, let but a quibble spring up before him, and he leaves his work unfinished. A !quibble is the golden apple for which he will always<a id='GBS.PR58.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.73.1.0.box.152.178.863.299.q.60'>
turn aside from his career, or stoop from his elevation. A quibble, poor and barren as it is, gave him such delight, that he was content to purchase it, by the sacrifice of reason, propriety, and truth. A quibble was to him the fatal Cleopatra for which he lost the world, and was content to lose it.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633356314574 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR58'></a>
<div id='block.73.1.0.box.149.178.867.1445.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR58.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.73.1.1.box.149.494.867.659.q.60'>It will be thought strange, that, in enumerating the defects of this writer, I have not yet mentioned his neglect of the unities; his violation of those laws which have been instituted and established by the joint authority of poets and of criticks. , For his other deviations from the art of writing, I resign him to critical justice, without making any other demand in his favour, than that which must be indulged to all human excellence; that his virtues be rated with his failings: but, from the censure which this irregularity may bring upon him, I shall, with due reverence to that learning which I must oppose, adventure to try how I can defend him.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR58.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.73.1.2.box.153.1168.861.401.q.60'>His histories, being neither tragedies nor comedies, are not subject to any of their laws; nothing more is necessary to all the praise which they expect, than that the changes of action be so prepared as to be understood, that the incidents be various and affecting, and the characters consistent, natural, and distinct. No other unity is intended, and therefore none is to be sought.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR58.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.73.1.3.box.193.1583.818.40.q.70'>In his other works he has well enough preserved<a id='GBS.PR59.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.74.1.0.box.97.188.860.663.q.60'>
the unity of action. He has not, indeed, an intrigue regularly perplexed and regularly unravelled; he does not endeavour to hide his design only to discover it, for this is seldom the order of real events, and Shakspeare is the poet of nature: but his plan has conv monly what Aristotle requires, a beginning, a middle, and an end; one event is concatenated with another, and the conclusion follows by easy consequence. There are perhaps some incidents that might be spared, as in other poets there is much talk that only fills up time upon the stage; but the general system makes gradual advances, and the end of the pky is the end ef expectation.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633357646650 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR59'></a>
<div id='block.74.1.0.box.94.188.863.1395.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR59.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.74.1.1.box.96.864.858.353.q.70'>To the unities of time and place he has shewn no regard; and perhaps a nearer view of the principles on which they stand will diminish their value, and withdraw from them the veneration which, from the time of Corneille, they have very generally received, by discovering that they have given more trouble to the poet, than pleasure to the auditor.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR59.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.74.1.2.box.94.1230.858.353.q.60'>The necessity of observing the unities of time and place arises from the supposed necessity of making the drama credible. The criticks hold it impossible, that an action of months or years can be possibly believed to pass in three hours; or that the spectator can suppose himself to sit in the theatre, while ambassadors go and return between distant kings, while<a id='GBS.PR60.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.75.1.0.box.134.196.856.299.q.60'>
armies are levied and towns besieged, while an exile wanders and returns, or till he whom they saw courting his mistress, shall lament the untimely fall of his son. The mind revolts from evident falsehood, and fiction loses its force when it departs from the resemblance of reality.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633358378517 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR60'></a>
<div id='block.75.1.0.box.134.196.862.1380.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR60.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.75.1.1.box.136.508.859.505.q.60'>. From the narrow limitation of time necessarily arises the contraction of place. The spectator, who knows that he saw the first act at Alexandria, cannot suppose that he sees the next at Rome, at a distance to which not the dragons of Medea could, in so short a time, have transported him; he knows with certainty that he has not changed his place; and he knows that place cannot change itself; that what was a house cannot become a plain ; that what was Thebes can never be Persepolis.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR60.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.75.1.2.box.139.1028.857.548.q.60'>. Such is the triumphant language with which a critick exults over the misery of an irregular poet, and exults commonly without resistance or reply. It is time therefore to tell him, by the authority of Shakspeare, that he assumes, as an unquestionable principle, a position, which, while his breath is forming it into words, his understanding pronounces to be false. It is false, that any representation is mistaken for Teality; that any dramatick fable in its materiality was ever credible, or, for a single moment, was ever credited.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633359223378 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR61'></a>
<div id='block.76.1.0.box.96.204.865.1338.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR61.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.76.1.0.box.96.204.865.1076.q.60'>The objection arising from the impossibility of passing the first hour at Alexandria, and the next at .Rome, supposes, that when the play opens the spectator really imagines himself at Alexandria, and believes that his walk to the theatre has been a voyage -to Egypt, and that he lives in the days of Antony and Cleopatra. Surely he that imagines this may imagine more. He that can take the stage at one time for the palace of the Ptolemies, may take it in half an hour&#39; for the promontory of Actium. Delusion, if delusion be admitted, has no certain limitation; if the spectator can be once persuaded, that his old acquaintance are Alexander and Caesar, that a room illuminated with candles is the plain of Pharsalia, or the bank of &#8226;Granicus, he is in a state of elevation above the reach of reason, or of truth, and from the heights of empyrean poetry, may despise the circumscriptions of terrestrial nature. There is no reason why a mind thus wandering in ecstasy should count the clock, or why an hour should not be a century in that calenture of the brains that can make the stage a field. <i>-<sub>L</sub> </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR61.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.76.1.1.box.100.1295.859.247.q.70'>The truth is, that the spectators are always in their senses, and know, from the first act to the last, that the stage is only a stage, and that the players are only players. They come to hear a certain number of lines recital with just gesture and elegant modulation<a id='GBS.PR62.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.77.1.0.box.134.204.873.344.q.60'>
The lines relate to some action, and an action must be in some place ; but the different actions that complete a story may be in places very remote from each other; and where is the absurdity of allowing that space to represent first Athens, and then Sicily, which was always known to be neither Sicily nor Athens, but a modern theatre?</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633360851391 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR62'></a>
<div id='block.77.1.0.box.131.204.876.1338.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR62.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.77.1.1.box.131.570.871.972.q.60'>By supposition, as place is introduced, time may be extended; the time required by the fable elapses for the most part between the acts; for, of so much of the action as is represented, the real and poetical duration is the same. If, in the first act, preparations for war against Mithridates are represented to be made in Rome, the event of the war may, without absurdity, be represented, in the catastrophe, as happening in Pontus; we know that there is neither war, nor preparation for war; we know that we are neither in Rome nor Pontus ; that neither Mithridates nor Lucullus are before us. The drama exhibits successive imitations of successive actions, and why may not the second imitation represent an action that happened years after the first; if it be so connected with it, that nothing but time can be supposed to intervene? Time is, of all modes of existence, most obsequious to the imagination; a lapse of years is as easily conceived as a passage of hours. In contem</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633361861833 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR63'></a>
<div id='block.78.1.0.box.73.200.861.1393.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR63.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.78.1.0.box.76.200.857.141.q.60'>plation we easily contract the time of real actions, and therefore willingly permit it to be contracted when we only see their imitation.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR63.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.78.1.1.box.74.358.860.869.q.60'>It will be asked, how the drama moves, if it is not credited. It is credited, with all the credit due to a drama. It is credited, whenever it moves, as a just picture of a real original; as representing to the auditor what he would himself feel, if he were to do or suffer what is there feigned to be suffered or to bfe done. The reflection that strikes the heart is not, that the evils before us are real evils, but that they are evils to which we ourselves may be exposed. If there be any fallacy, it is not that we fancy the players, but that we fancy ourselves unhappy for a moment<i>; </i>but we rather lament the possibility than suppose the presence of misery, as a mother weeps over her babe, when she remembers that death may take it from her. The delight of tragedy proceeds from our consciousness of fiction; if we thought murders and treasons real, they would please no more.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR63.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.78.1.2.box.73.1240.858.353.q.60'>Imitations produce pain or pleasure, not because they are mistaken for realities, but because they bring realities to mind. When the imagination is recreated by a painted landscape, the trees are not supposed capable to give us shade, or the fountains coolness; but we consider, how we should be pleased with such fountains playing beside us, and such woods waving<a id='GBS.PR64.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.79.1.0.box.158.192.868.497.q.60'>
over us. We are agitated in reading the history of <i>Henry the Fifth, </i>yet no man takes his book for the field of Agincourt. A dramatick exhibition is a book recited with concomitants that increase or diminish its effect. Familiar comedy is often more powerful on the theatre than in the page; imperial tragedy is always less. The humour of Petruchio may be heightened by grimace; but what voice or what gesture can hope to add dignity or force to the soliloquy ofCato?</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633362666220 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR64'></a>
<div id='block.79.1.0.box.153.192.873.1386.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR64.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.79.1.1.box.153.712.871.866.q.60'>A play read, affects the mind like a play acted. It is therefore evident, that the action is not supposed to be real, and it follows, that between the acts a longer or shorter time may be allowed to pass, and that no .more account of space or duration is to be taken by the auditor of a drama, than by the reader of a narrative, before whom may pass in an hour the life of a .hero, or the revolutions of an empire. <sub>;</sub> Whether Shakspeare knew the unities, and rejected them by design, or deviated from them by happy ignorance, it is, I think, impossible to decide, and useless to enquire. We may reasonably suppose, that, when he rose to notice, he did not want the counsels and admonitions of scholars and criticks, and that he at last deliberately persisted in a practice, which he might .have begun by chance. As nothing is essential to the fable, but unity of action, and as the unities of time<a id='GBS.PR65.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.80.1.0.box.73.167.842.496.q.60'>
and place arise evidently from false assumptions, and, by circumscribing the extent of the drama, lessen its variety, I cannot think it much to be lamented, that they were not known by him, or not observed: nor, if such another poet could arise, should I very vehemently reproach him, that his first act passed at Venice, and his next in Cyprus. Such violations of rules merely positive, become the comprehensive genius of Shakspeare, and such censures are suitable to the minute and slender criticism of Voltaire:</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633363721524 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR65'></a>
<div id='block.80.1.0.box.73.167.847.1439.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR65.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body gtxt_lineated' id='para.80.1.1.box.198.698.581.119.q.60'>  Non usque adeo permiscuit imis <br/>Longus summa dies, ut non, si voce Metelli <br/>Serventurleges, matint a Csesare tolli. <br/></p>
<a id='GBS.PR65.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.80.1.2.box.73.850.847.713.q.60'>Yet when I speak thus slightly of dramatick rules, I cannot but recollect how much wit and learning may be produced against me; before such authorities I am afraid to stand, not that I think the present question one of those that are to be decided by mere authority, but because it is to be suspected, that these precepts have not been so easily received, but for better reasons than I have yet been able to find. The result of my enquiries, in which it would be ludicrous to boast of impartiality, is, that the unities of time and place are hot essential to a just drama, that though they may sometimes conduce to pleasure, they are always to be&#171; sacrificed to the nobler beauties of variety and instruction<i>; </i>and that a play, written with</p>
<a id='GBS.PR65.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.80.1.3.box.112.1576.409.30.q.60'>VOL. i. f</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633364606491 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR66'></a>
<div id='block.81.1.0.box.169.182.864.1400.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR66.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.81.1.0.box.173.182.859.204.q.60'>nice observation of critical rules, is to be contemplated as an elaborate curiosity, as the product of superfluous and ostentatious art, by which is shewn, rather what is possible, than what is necessary.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR66.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.81.1.1.box.175.392.858.359.q.60'>He that, without diminution of any other excellence, shall preserve all the unities unbroken, deserves the like applause with the architect, who shall display all the orders of architecture in a citadel, without any deduction from its strength; but the principal beauty of a citadel is to exclude the enemy ; and the greatest graces of a play are to copy nature, and instruct life.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR66.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.81.1.2.box.173.758.859.463.q.60'>Perhaps, what I have here not dogmatically but deliberately written, may recall the principles of the drama to a new examination. I am almost frighted at my own temerity; and when I estimate the fame and the strength of those that maintain the contrary opinion, am ready to sink down in reverential silence; as iEneas withdrew from the defence of Troy, when he saw Neptune shaking the wall, and Juno heading the besiegers.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR66.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.81.1.3.box.171.1231.859.194.q.60'>Those whom my arguments cannot persuade to give their approbation to the judgment of Shakspeare, will easily, if they consider the condition of his life, make some allowance for his ignorance.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR66.w.1.4.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.81.1.4.box.169.1439.863.143.q.60'>Every man&#39;s performances, to be rightly estimated, must be compared with the state of the age in which he lived, and with his own particular opportunities;<a id='GBS.PR67.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.82.1.0.box.77.198.857.805.q.60'>
and though to a reader a book be not worse or better for the circumstances of the author, yet as there is always a silent reference of human works to human abilities, and as the enquiry, how far man may extend his designs, or how highly he may rate his native force, is of far greater dignity than in what rank we shall place any particular performance, curiosity is always busy to discover the instruments, as well as to survey the workmanship, to know how much is to be abscribed to original powers, and how much to casual and adventitious help. The palaces of Peru or Mexico were certainly mean and incommodious habitations, if compared to the houses of European monarchs; yet who could forbear to view them with astonishment, who remembered that they were built without the use of iron?</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633365671015 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR67'></a>
<div id='block.82.1.0.box.71.198.863.1390.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR67.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.82.1.1.box.71.1025.861.563.q.60'>The English nation, in the time of Shakspeare, was yet struggling to emerge from barbarity. Tl^e philology of Italy had been transplanted hither in the reign of Henry the Eighth; and the learned languages had been successfully cultivated by Lilly, Linacre, and More; by Pole, Cheke, and Gardiner; and afterwards by Smith, Clerk, Haddon, and Ascham. Greek was now taught to boys in the principal schools; and those who united elegance with learning, read, with great diligence, the Italian and Spanish poets. But literature was yet confined to<a id='GBS.PR68.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.83.1.0.box.174.204.861.195.q.60'>
professed scholars, or to men and women of high rank. The publick was gross and dark; and to be able to read and write, was an accomplishment still valued for its rarity.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633366905863 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR68'></a>
<div id='block.83.1.0.box.174.204.861.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR68.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.83.1.1.box.174.413.859.600.q.60'>Nations, like individuals, have their infancy. A people newly awakened to literary curiosity, being yet unacquainted with the true state of things, knows not how to judge of that which is proposed as its resemblance. Whatever is remote from common appearances is always welcome to vulgar, as to childish credulity; and of a country unenlightened by learning, the whole people is the vulgar. The study of those who then aspired to plebeian learning was laid out upon adventures, giants, dragons, and enchantments. <i>The Death of Arthur </i>was the favourite volume.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR68.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.83.1.2.box.174.1033.855.507.q.60'>The mind which has feasted on the luxurious wonders of fiction, has no taste of the insipidity of truth. A play, which imitated only the common occurrences of the world, would, upon the admirers of <i>Palmerin </i>and <i>Guy of Warwick, </i>have made little impression ; be that wrote for such an audience was under the necessity of looking round for strange events and fabulous transactions, and that incredibility, by which maturer knowledge is offended, was the chief recommendation of writings, to unskilful curiosity.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR68.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.83.1.3.box.212.1554.817.39.q.70'>Our author&#39;s plots are generally borrowed from<a id='GBS.PR69.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.84.1.0.box.84.193.850.247.q.60'>
novels; and it is reasonable to suppose, that he chose the most popular, such as were read by many, and related by more; for his audience could not have followed him through the intricacies of the drama, had they not held the thread of the story in their hands.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633367745323 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR69'></a>
<div id='block.84.1.0.box.71.193.863.1391.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR69.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.84.1.1.box.80.453.851.340.q.50'>The stories, which we now find only in remoter authors, were in his time accessible and familiar. The fable of <i>As you like it, </i>which is supposed to be copied from <i>Chaucer&#39;s Gamelyn, </i>was a little pamphlet of those times; and old Mr. Cibber remembered the tale of <i>Hamlet </i>in plain English prose, which the criticks have now to seek in <i>Saxo Grammaticus. </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR69.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.84.1.2.box.76.814.854.301.q.60'>His English histories he took from English chronicles and English ballads; and as the ancient writers were made known to his countrymen by versions, they supplied him with new subjects; he dilated some of Plutarch&#39;s lives into plays, when they had been translated by North.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR69.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.84.1.3.box.71.1128.862.456.q.60'>His plots, whether historical or fabulous, are always crouded with incidents, by which the attention of a rude people was more easily caught than by sentiment or argumentation; and such is the power of the marvellous, even over those who despise it, that every man finds his mind more strongly seized by the tragedies of Shakspeare than of any other writer; others please us by particular speeches, but he always makes us anxious for the event, and has perhaps ex<a id='GBS.PR70.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.85.1.0.box.148.208.862.193.q.60'>celled all but Homer in securing the first purpose of a writer, by exciting restless and unquenchable curiosity, and compelling him that reads his work to read it through.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633368756461 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR70'></a>
<div id='block.85.1.0.box.148.208.870.1388.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR70.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.85.1.1.box.151.414.863.713.q.60'>The shows and bustle with which his plays abound Bave the same original. As knowledge advances, pleasure passes from the eye to the ear, but returns, as tt declines, from the ear to the eye. Those to whom our author&#39;s labours were exhibited had more skill in pomps or processions than in poetical language, and perhaps wanted some visible and discriminated events, as comments on the dialogue. He knew how he should most please; and whether his practice is more agreeable to nature, or whether his example has prejudiced the nation, we still find that on our stage something must be done as well as said, and inactive declamation is very coldly heard, however musical or elegant, passionate or sublime.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR70.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.85.1.2.box.158.1140.860.456.q.60'>Voltaire expresses his wonder, that our author&#39;s extravagancies are endured by a nation, which has seen the tragedy of <i>Cato. </i>Let him be answered, that Addison speaks the language of poets, and Shakspeare, of men. We find in <i>Cato </i>innumerable beauties which enamour us of its author, but we see nothing that acquaints us with human sentiments or human actions; we place it with the fairest and the noblest progeny which judgment propagates by con<a id='GBS.PR71.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.86.1.0.box.81.193.856.449.q.60'>junction with learning; but <i>Othello </i>is the vigorous and vivacious offspring of observation impregnated by genius. <i>Cato </i>affords a splendid exhibition of artificial and fictitious manners, and delivers just and noble sentiments, in diction easy, elevated, and harmonious, but its hopes and fears communicate no vibration to the heart; the composition refers us only to die writer; we pronounce the name of <i>Cato, </i>but we think on <i>Addison. </i></span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633369761184 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR71'></a>
<div id='block.86.1.0.box.81.193.871.1398.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR71.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.86.1.1.box.85.665.867.757.q.60'>The work of a correct and regular writer is a garden accurately formed and diligently planted, varied with shades, and scented with flowers; the composition of Shakspeare is a forest, in which oaks extend their branches, and pines tower in the air, interspersed sometimes with weeds and brambles, and sometimes giving shelter to myrtles and to roses; filling the eye with awful pomp, and gratifying the mind with endless diversity. Other poets display cabinets of precious rarities, minutely finished, wrought into shape, and polished into brightness. Shakspeare opens a mine which contains gold and diamonds in unexhaustible plenty, though clouded by incrustations, debased by impurities, and mingled with a mass, of meaner minerals.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR71.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.86.1.2.box.95.1446.856.145.q.60'>It has been much disputed, whether Shakspeare owed his excellence to his own native force, or whether he had the common helps of scholastick educa<a id='GBS.PR72.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.87.1.0.box.149.193.857.82.q.70'>tion, the precepts of critical science, and the examples of andient authors.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633370620429 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR72'></a>
<div id='block.87.1.0.box.136.193.872.1382.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR72.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.87.1.1.box.149.297.859.508.q.60'>There has always prevailed a tradition, that Shaks-peare wanted learning, that he had no regular education, nor much skill in the dead languages. Jonson, his friend, affirms, that <i>he had small Latin, and less Greek; </i>who, besides that he had no imaginable temptation to falsehood, wrote at a time when the character and acquisitions of Shakspeare were known to multitudes. His evidence ought therefore to decide the controversy, unless some testimony of equal force could be opposed.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR72.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.87.1.2.box.147.818.859.402.q.60'>Some have imagined, that they have discovered deep learning in many imitations of old writers; but the examples which I have known urged, were drawn from books translated in his time; or were such easy coincidences of thought, as will happen to all who consider the same subjects; or such remarks on life or axioms of morality as float in conversation, and are transmitted through the world in proverbial sentences.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR72.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.87.1.3.box.136.1234.867.341.q.50'>I have found it remarked, that, in this important sentence, <i>Go before, I&#39;ll follow, </i>we read a translation of, / <i>prae sequar. </i>I have been told, that when Caliban, after a pleasing dream, says, / <i>cry&#39;d to sleep again, </i>the author imitates Anacreon, who had, like every other man, the same wish on the same occasion.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633371512508 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR73'></a>
<div id='block.88.1.0.box.65.206.858.1392.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR73.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.88.1.0.box.74.206.847.289.q.50'>There are a few passages which may pass for imitations, but so few, that the exception only confirms the rule; he obtained them from accidental quotations, or by oral communication, and as he used what he had, would have used more if he had obtained it.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR73.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.88.1.1.box.72.519.851.288.q.60'>The <i>Comedy of Errors </i>is confessedly taken from the <i>Mencechmi </i>of <i>Plaultts; </i>from the only play of Plautus which was then in English. What can be more probable, than that he who copied that, would have copied more; but that those which were not translated were inaccessible?</p>
<a id='GBS.PR73.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.88.1.2.box.69.829.853.604.q.60'>Whether he knew the modern languages is uncertain. That his plays have some French scenes proves but little; he might easily procure them to be written, and probably, -even though he had known the language in the ^common degree, he could not have written it without assistance. In the story of <i>Romeo </i>and <i>Juliet </i>he is observed to have followed the English translation, where it deviates from the Italian; but this on the other part proves nothing against his knowledge of the original. He was to copy, not what he knew himself, but what was known to his audience.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR73.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.88.1.3.box.65.1455.848.143.q.70'>It is most likely that he had learned Latin sufficiently to make him acquainted with construction, but that he never advanced to an easy perusal of the<a id='GBS.PR74.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.89.1.0.box.164.202.863.348.q.60'>
Roman authors. Concerning his skill in modern languages, I can find no sufficient ground of determination; but as no imitations of French or Italian authors have been discovered, though the Italian poetry was then high in esteem, I am inclined to believe, that he read little more than English, and chose for his fables only such tales as he found translated.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633372798907 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR74'></a>
<div id='block.89.1.0.box.162.202.865.1390.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR74.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.89.1.1.box.165.563.860.350.q.60'>That much knowledge is scattered over his works is very justly observed by Pope, but it is often such knowledge as books did not supply. He that will understand Shakspeare, must not be content to study him in the closet, he must look for his meaning sometimes among the sports of the field, and sometimes among the manufactures of the shop.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR74.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.89.1.2.box.162.927.864.612.q.70'>There is however proof enough that he was a very diligent reader, nor was our language then so indigent of books, but that he might very liberally indulge his curiosity without excursion into foreign literature. Many of the Roman authors were translated, and some of the Greek; the Reformation had filled the kingdom with theological learning; most of the topicks of human disquisition had found English writers; and poetry had been cultivated, not only with diligence, but success. This was a stock of knowledge sufficient for a mind so capable of appropriating and improving it.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR74.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.89.1.3.box.203.1552.818.40.q.70'>But the greater part of his excellence was the pro<a id='GBS.PR75.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.90.1.0.box.74.212.849.454.q.60'>duct of his own genius. He found the English stage in a state of the utmost rudeness; no essays either in tragedy or comedy had appeared, from which it could be discovered to what degree of delight either one or other might be carried. Neither character nor dialogue were yet understood. Shakspeare may be truly said to have introduced them both amongst us, and in some of his happier scenes to have carried them both to the utmost height.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633373695462 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR75'></a>
<div id='block.90.1.0.box.74.212.856.1390.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR75.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.90.1.1.box.77.680.853.922.q.60'>By what gradations of improvement he proceeded, is not easily known; for the chronology of his works is yet unsettled. Rowe is of opinion, that <i>perhaps Ke are not to look for his beginning, like those of other icriters, in his least perfect works; art had so little, and nature so large a share in what he did, that for aught I know, </i>says he, <i>the performances of his youth, as they were the most vigorous, were the best. </i>But the power of nature is only the power of using to any certain purpose the materials which diligence procures, or opportunity supplies. Nature gives no man knowledge, and when images are collected by study and experience, can only assist in combining or applying them. Shakspeare, however favoured by nature, could impart only what he had learned; and as be must increase his ideas, like other mortals, by gradual acquisition, he, like them, grew wiser as he grew older, could display life better, as he knew it more,<a id='GBS.PR76.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.91.1.0.box.158.205.860.91.q.60'>
and instruct with more efficacy, as he was himself more amply instructed.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633374823337 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR76'></a>
<div id='block.91.1.0.box.158.205.862.1387.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR76.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.91.1.1.box.158.309.859.704.q.60'>There is a vigilance of observation and accuracy of distinction which books and precepts cannot confer; from this almost all original and native excellence proceeds. Shakspeare must have looked upon mankind with perspicacity, in the highest degree curious and attentive. Other writers borrow their characters from preceding writers, and diversify them only by the accidental appendages of present manners; the dress is a little varied, but the body is the same. Our author had both matter and form to provide; for except the characters of Chaucer, to whom I think he is not much indebted, there were no writers in English, and perhaps not many in other modern languages, which shewed life in its native colours.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR76.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.91.1.2.box.162.1033.858.559.q.60'>The contest about the original benevolence or malignity of man had not yet commenced. Speculation had not yet attempted to analyse the mind, to trace the passions to their sources, to unfold the seminal principles of vice and virtue, or sound the depths of the heart for the motives of action. All those enquiries, which from that time that human nature became the fashionable study, have been made sometimes with nice discernment, but often with idle subtilty, were yet unattempted. The tales, with wluch the infancy of learning was satisfied, exhibited<a id='GBS.PR77.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.92.1.0.box.85.199.846.343.q.60'>
only the superficial appearances of action, related the events, but omitted the causes, and were formed for such as delighted in wonders rather than in truth. Mankind was not then to be studied in the closet; he that would know the world, was under the necessity of gleaning his own remarks, by mingling as he could in its business and amusements.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633376266502 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR77'></a>
<div id='block.92.1.0.box.72.199.859.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR77.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.92.1.1.box.75.563.856.815.q.60'>Boyle congratulated himself upon his high birth, because it favoured his curiosity, by facilitating his access. Shakspeare had no such advantage; he came to London a needy adventurer, and lived for a time by very mean employments. Many works of genius and learning have been performed in states of life, that appear very little favourable to thought or to enquiry; so many, that he who considers them is inclined to think that he sees enterprize and perseverance predominating over all external agency, and bidding help and hindrance vanish before them. The genius of Shakspeare was not to be depressed by the weight of poverty, nor limited by the narrow conversation to which men in want are inevitably condemned; the incumbrances of his fortune were shaken from his mind, <i>as dew-drops Jrum a lion&#39;s mane. </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR77.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.92.1.2.box.72.1391.853.197.q.60'>Though he had so many difficulties to encounter, and so little assistance to surmount them, he has been able to obtain an exact knowledge of many modes of life, and many casts of native dispositions<i>; </i>to vary<a id='GBS.PR78.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.93.1.0.box.173.195.859.456.q.60'>
them with great multiplicity; to mark them by nice distinctions; and to shew them in full view by proper combinations. In this part of his performances he had none to imitate, but has himself been imitated by all succeeding writers; and it may be doubted, whether from all his successors more maxims of theoretical knowledge, or more rules of practical prudence, can be collected, than he alone has given to his country.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633377358681 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR78'></a>
<div id='block.93.1.0.box.168.195.866.1395.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR78.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.93.1.1.box.168.664.866.926.q.70'>Nor was his attention confined to the actions of men; he was an exact surveyor of the inanimate world; his descriptions have always some peculiarities, gathered by contemplating things as they really exist. It may be observed, that the oldest poets of many nations preserve their reputation, and that the following generations of wit, after a short celebrity, sink into oblivion. The first, whoever they be, must take their sentiments and descriptions immediately from knowledge; the resemblance is therefore just, their descriptions are verified by every eye, and their sentiments acknowledged by every breast. Those whom their fame invites to the same studies, copy partly them, and partly nature, till the books of one age gain such authority, as to stand in the place of nature to another, and imitation, always deviating a little, becomes at last capricious and casual. Shakspeare, whether life or nature be his subject,<a id='GBS.PR79.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.94.1.0.box.108.176.852.247.q.60'>
shews plainly, that he has seen with his own eyes; he gives the image which he receives, not weakened or distorted by the intervention of any other mind; the ignorant feel his representations to be just, and the learned see that they are complete.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633378058997 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR79'></a>
<div id='block.94.1.0.box.95.176.875.1339.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR79.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.94.1.1.box.95.437.875.761.q.60'>Perhaps it would not be easy to find any author, except Homer, who invented so much as Shakspeare, who so much advanced the studies which he cultivated, or effused so much novelty upon his age or country. The form, the character, the language, and the shows of the English drama are his. <i>He seems, </i>says Dennis, <i>to have been the very original of our English tragical harmony, that is, the harmony of blank verse, diversified often by dissyllable and trisyllable terminations. For the diversity distinguishes it from heroick harmony, and by bringing it nearer to common use makes it more proper to gain attention, and more Jit for action and dialogue. Sucfi verse ice make when we are writing prose; we make such verse in common conversation. </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR79.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.94.1.2.box.103.1220.860.295.q.60'>I know not whether this praise is rigorously just. The dissyllable termination, which the critick rightly appropriates to the drama, is to be found, though, I think, not in <i>Gorboduc,- </i>which is confessedly before our author; yet in <i>Hieronymo, </i>of which the date is not certain, but which there is reason to believe at<a id='GBS.PR80.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.95.1.0.box.161.185.859.346.q.60'>
least as old as his earliest plays. This however is certain, that he is the first who taught either tragedy or comedy to please, there being no theatrical piece of any older writer, of which the name is known, except to antiquaries and collectors of books, which are sought because they are scarce, and would not have been scarce. had they been much esteemed.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633378910945 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR80'></a>
<div id='block.95.1.0.box.161.185.865.1329.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR80.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.95.1.1.box.166.544.859.454.q.60'>To him we must ascribe the praise, unless Spenser may divide it with him, of having first discovered to how much smoothness and harmony the English language could be softened. He has speeches, perhaps sometimes scenes, which have all the delicacy of Rowe, without his effeminacy. He endeavours indeed commonly to strike by the force and vigour of his dialogue, but he never executes his purpose better, than when he tries to sooth by softness.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR80.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.95.1.2.box.170.1012.856.502.q.60'>Yet it must be at last confessed, that as we owe every thing to him, he owes something to us; that, if much of his praise is paid by perception and judgment, much is likewise given by custom and veneration. We fix our eyes upon his graces, and turn them from his deformities, and endure in him what we should in another loath or despise. If we endured without praising, respect for the father of our drama might excuse us; but I have seen, in the book of some modern critick, a collection of anomalies, which<a id='GBS.PR81.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.96.1.0.box.80.177.860.134.q.60'>
shew that he has corrupted language by every mode of depravation, but which his admirer has accumulated as a monument of honour.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633379755637 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR81'></a>
<div id='block.96.1.0.box.79.177.861.1433.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR81.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.96.1.1.box.79.334.860.709.q.60'>He has scenes of undoubted and perpetual excellence, but perhaps not one play, which, if it were now exhibited as the work of a contemporary writer, would be heard to the conclusion. I am indeed far from thinking, that his works were wrought to his own ideas of perfection; when they were such as would satisfy the audience, they satisfied the writer. It is seldom that authors, though more studious of fame than Shakspeare, rise much above the standard of their own age; to add a little to what is best will always be sufficient for present praise, and those who find themselves exalted into fame, are willing to credit their encomiasts, and to spare the labour of contending with themselves.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR81.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.96.1.2.box.81.1056.851.504.q.60'>It does not appear, that Shakspeare thought his works worthy of posterity, that he levied any ideal tribute upon future times, or had any further prospect, than of present popularity and present profit. When his plays had been acted, his hope was at an end; he solicited no addition of honour from the reader. He therefore made no scruple to repeat the same jests in many dialogues, or to entangle different plots by the same knot of perplexity, which may. be at least forgiven him, by those who recollect, that</p>
<a id='GBS.PR81.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.96.1.3.box.121.1582.383.28.q.60'><span style='font-variant:small-caps;'>Vol. </span>i. g</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633380670265 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR82'></a>
<div id='block.97.1.0.box.175.187.860.1387.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR82.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.97.1.0.box.182.187.852.192.q.60'>of Congreve&#39;s four comedies, two are concluded by a marriage in a mask, by a deception, which perhaps never happened, and which, whether likely or not, he did not invent.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR82.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.97.1.1.box.180.396.855.454.q.60'>So careless was this great poet of future fame, that, though he retired to ease and plenty, while he was yet little <i>declined into the vale of years, </i>before he could be disgusted with fatigue, or disabled by infirmity, he made no collection of his works, nor desired to rescue those that had been already published from the depravations that obscured them, or secure to the rest a better destiny, by giving them to the world in their genuine state.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR82.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.97.1.2.box.179.862.854.297.q.70'>Of the plays which bear the name of Shakspeare in the late editions, the greater part were not published till about seven years after his death, and the few which appeared in his life are apparently thrust into the world without the care of the author, and therefore probably without his knowledge.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR82.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.97.1.3.box.175.1173.854.401.q.60'>Of all the publishers, clandestine or professed, thejr negligence and unskilfulness has by the late revisers been sufficiently shewn. The faults of all are indeed numerous and gross, and have not only corrupted many passages perhaps beyond recovery, but have brought others into suspicion, which are only obscured by obsolete phraseology, or by the writer&#39;s unskilfulness and affectation.- To alter is more easy<a id='GBS.PR83.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.98.1.0.box.82.184.854.402.q.60'>
than to explain, and temerity is a more common quality than diligence. Those who saw that they must employ conjecture to a certain degree, were willing to indulge it a little further. Had the author published his own works, we should have sat quietly down to disentangle his intricacies, and clear his obscurities; but now we tear what we cannot loose, and eject what we happen not to understand.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633381920700 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR83'></a>
<div id='block.98.1.0.box.81.184.855.1387.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR83.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.98.1.1.box.81.600.852.503.q.60'>The faults are more than could have happened without the concurrence of many causes. The style of Shakspeare was in itself ungrammatical, perplexed, and obscure^ his works were transcribed for the players by those who may be supposed to have seldom understood them; they were transmitted by copiers equally unskilful, who still multiplied errors; they were perhaps sometimes mutilated by the actors, for the sake of shortening the speeches; and were at last printed without correction of the press.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR83.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.98.1.2.box.84.1117.847.454.q.60'>In this state they remained, not as Dr. Warburton supposes, because they were unregarded, but because the editor&#39;s art was not yet applied to modern languages, and our ancestors were accustomed to so much negligence of English printers, that they could very patiently endure it. At last an edition was undertaken by Rowe; not because a poet was to be published by a poet, for Rowe seems to have thought very little on correction or explanation, but that our<a id='GBS.PR84.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.99.1.0.box.176.184.858.814.q.60'>
author&#39;s works might appenr like those of his frater&lt; nity, with the appendages of a life and recommendatory preface. Rowe has been clamorously blamed for not performing what he did not undertake, and it is time that justice be done him, by confessing, that though he seems to have had no thought of corruption beyond the printer&#39;s errors, yet he has made many emendations, if they were not made before, which his successors have received without acknowledgment, and which, if they had produced them, would have filled pages and pages with censures of the stupidity by which the faults were committed, with displays of the absurdities which they involved, with ostentatious expositions of the new reading, and self-congratulations on the happiness of discovering it.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633382781792 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR84'></a>
<div id='block.99.1.0.box.176.184.858.1386.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR84.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.99.1.1.box.182.1012.849.300.q.60'>As of the other editors, I have preserved the prefaces, I have likewise borrowed the author&#39;s life from Rowe, though not written with much elegance or spirit; it relates however what is now to be known, and therefore deserves to pass through all succeeding publications.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR84.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.99.1.2.box.184.1323.850.247.q.60'>The nation had been for many years content enough with Mr. Rowe&#39;s performance, when Mr. Pope made them acquainted with the true state of Shakspeare&#39;s text, shewed that it was extremely corrupt, and gave reason to hope that there were<a id='GBS.PR85.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.100.1.0.box.87.211.858.246.q.60'>
means of reforming it. He collated the old copies, which none had thought to examine before, and restored many lines to their integrity; but, by a very compendious criticism, he rejected whatever he disliked, and thought more of amputation than of cure.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633383849013 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR85'></a>
<div id='block.100.1.0.box.84.211.861.1390.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR85.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.100.1.1.box.84.471.858.558.q.60'>I know not why he is commended by Dr. Warburton for distinguishing the genuine from the spurious plays. In this choice he exerted no judgment of his own; the plays which he received, were given by Hemings and Condel, the first editors; and those which he rejected, though, according to the licentiousness of the press in those times, they were printed during Shakspeare&#39;s life, with his name, had been omitted by his friends, and were never added to his works before the edition of <i>1664-, </i>from which they were copied by the later printers.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR85.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.100.1.2.box.89.1042.848.559.q.60'>This was a work which Pope seems to have thought unworthy of his abilities, being not able to suppress his contempt of <i>the dull duty of an editor. </i>He understood but half his undertaking. The duty of a collator is indeed dull, yet, like other tedious tasks, is very necessary; but an emendatory critick would ill discharge his duty, without qualities very different from dulness. In perusing a corrupted piece, he must have before him all possibilities of meaning, with aE possibilities of expression. Such must be his comprehension of thought, and such his copiousness of<a id='GBS.PR86.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.101.1.0.box.171.205.859.508.q.60'>
language. Out of many readings possible, he must be able to select that which best suits with the state, opinions, and modes of language prevailing in every age, and with his author&#39;s particular cast of thought, and turn of expression. Such must be his knowledge, and such his taste. Conjectural criticism demands more than humanity possesses, and he that exercises it with most praise has very frequent need of indulgence. Let us now be told no more of the dull duty of an editor.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633384984741 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR86'></a>
<div id='block.101.1.0.box.171.205.860.1391.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR86.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.101.1.1.box.180.727.851.399.q.60'>Confidence is the common consequence of success. They whose excellence of any kind has been loudly celebrated, are ready to conclude, that their powers are universal. Pope&#39;s edition fell below his own expectations, and he was so much offended, when he was found to have left any thing for others to do, that he passed the latter part of his life in a state of hostility with verbal criticism.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR86.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.101.1.2.box.185.1139.846.394.q.60'>I have retained all his notes, that no fragment of so great a writer may be lost; his preface, valuable alike for elegance of composition and justness of remark, and containing a general criticism on his author, so extensive that little can be added, and so exact, that little can be disputed, every editor has an interest to suppress, but that every reader would demand its insertion.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR86.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.101.1.3.box.224.1557.801.39.q.60'>Pope was succeeded by Theobald, a man of narrow<a id='GBS.PR87.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.102.1.0.box.101.185.852.403.q.60'>
comprehension and small acquisitions, with no native and intrinsick splendor of genius, with little of the artificial light of learning, but zealous for minute accuracy, and not negligent in pursuing it. He collated the ancient copies, and rectified many errors. A man so anxiously scrupulous might have been expected to do more, but what little he did was commonly right.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633386329059 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR87'></a>
<div id='block.102.1.0.box.101.185.863.1391.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR87.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.102.1.1.box.102.602.858.558.q.60'>In his reports of copies and editions he is not to be trusted without examination. He speaks sometimes indefinitely of copies, when he has only one. In his enumeration of editions, he mentions the two first folios as of high, and the third folio as of middle authority; but the truth is, that the first is equivalent to all others, and that the rest only deviate from it by the printer&#39;s negligence. Whoever has any of the folios has all, excepting those diversities which mere reiteration of editions will produce. I collated them all at the beginning, but afterwards used only the first.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR87.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.102.1.2.box.111.1174.853.402.q.60'>Of his notes I have generally retained those which he retained himself in his second edition, except when they were confuted by subsequent annotators, or were too minute to merit preservation. I have sometimes adopted his restoration of a comma, without inserting the panegyrick in which he celebrated himself for his achievement. The exuberant excrescence of his diction I have often lopped, his triumph<a id='GBS.PR88.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.103.1.0.box.158.193.851.339.q.60'>ant exultations over Pope and Rowe I have sometimes suppressed, and his contemptible ostentation I have frequently concealed; but I have in some places shewn him, as he would have shewn himself, for the reader&#39;s diversion, that the inflated emptiness of some notes may justify or excuse the contraction of the rest.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633387389521 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR88'></a>
<div id='block.103.1.0.box.158.193.852.1383.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR88.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.103.1.1.box.158.554.851.351.q.60'>Theobald, thus weak and ignorant, thus mean and faithless, thus petulant and ostentatious, by the good luck of having Pope for his enemy, has escaped, and escaped alone, with reputation, from this undertaking. So willingly does the world support those who solicit favour, against those who command reverence; and so easily is he praised, whom no man can envy.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR88.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.103.1.2.box.158.918.852.658.q.60'>Our author fell then into the hands of Sir Thomas Hanmer, the Oxford editor, a man, in my opinion, eminently qualified by nature for such studies. He had, what is the first requisite to emendatory criticism, that intuition by which the poet&#39;s intention is immediately discovered, and that dexterity of intellect which dispatches its work by the easiest means. He had undoubtedly read much; his acquaintance with customs, opinions, and traditions, seems to have been large; and he is often learned without shew. He seldom passes what he does not understand, without an attempt to find or to make a meaning, and sometimes hastily makes what a little more attention would<a id='GBS.PR89.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.104.1.0.box.76.192.850.343.q.60'>
have found. He is solicitous to reduce to grammar, what he could not be sure that his author intended to be grammatical. Shakspeare regarded more the series of ideas. than of words; and his language, not being designed for the reader&#39;s desk, was all that he desired it to be, if it conveyed his meaning to the audience.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633388929680 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR89'></a>
<div id='block.104.1.0.box.76.192.853.1334.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR89.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.104.1.1.box.77.558.846.452.q.70'>Hanmer&#39;s care of the metre has been too violently censured. He found the measure reformed in so many passages, by the silent labours of some editors, with the silent acquiescence of the rest, that he thought himself allowed to extend a little further the licence, which had already been carried so far without reprehension; and of his corrections in general, it must be confessed, that they are often just, and made com* monly with the least possible violation of the text.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR89.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.104.1.2.box.81.1024.848.451.q.60'>But, by inserting his emendations, whether invented or borrowed, into the page, without any notice of varying copies, he has appropriated the labour of his predecessors, and made his own edition of little authority. His confidence indeed, both in himself and others, was too great; he supposes all to be right that was done by Pope and Theobald; he seems not to suspect a critick of fallibility, and it was but reasonable that he should claim what he so liberally granted.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR89.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.104.1.3.box.116.1488.804.38.q.60'>As he never writes without careful enquiry and dU</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633390271994 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR90'></a>
<div id='block.105.1.0.box.180.196.859.1339.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR90.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.105.1.0.box.182.196.857.88.q.70'>ligent consideration, I have received all his notes, and believe that every reader will wish for more.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR90.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.105.1.1.box.184.299.855.506.q.60'>Of the last editor it is more difficult to speak. Respect is due to high place, tenderness to living reputation, and veneration to genius and learning; but he cannot be justly offended at that liberty of which he has himself so frequently given an example, nor very solicitous what is thought of notes, which he ought never to have considered as part of his serious employments, and which, I suppose, since the ardour of composition is remitted, he no longer numbers among his happy effusions.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR90.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.105.1.2.box.180.819.857.716.q.60'>The original and predominant error of his commentary, is acquiescence in his first thoughts; that precipitation which is produced by consciousness of quick discernment; and that confidence which presumes to do, by surveying the surface, what labour only can perform, by penetrating the bottom. His notes exhibit sometimes perverse interpretations, and sometimes improbable conjectures; he at one time gives the author more profundity of meaning than the sentence admits, and at another discovers absurdities, where the sense is plain to every other reader. But his emendations are likewise often happy and just; and his interpretation of obscure passages learned and sagacious.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633391741118 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR91'></a>
<div id='block.106.1.0.box.92.201.860.1387.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR91.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.106.1.0.box.92.201.856.557.q.60'>Of his notes, I have commonly rejected those, against which the general voice of the publick has exclaimed, or which their own incongruity immediately condemns, and which, I suppose, the author himself would desire to be forgotten. Of the rest, to part I have given the highest approbation, by inserting the offered reading in the text; part I have left to the judgment of the reader, as doubtful, though specious; and part I have censured without reserve, but I am sure without bitterness of malice, and, I hope, without wantonness of insult.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR91.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.106.1.1.box.93.772.859.816.q.60'>It is no pleasure to me, in revising my volumes, to observe how much paper is wasted in confutation. Whoever considers the revolutions of learning and the various questions of greater or less importance, upon which wit and reason have exercised their powers, must lament the unsuccessfulness of enquiry, and the slow advances of truth, when he reflects, that great part of the labour of every writer is only the destruction of those that went before him. The first care of the builder of a new system, is to demolish the fabricks which are standing. The chief desire of him that comments an author, is to shew how much other commentators have corrupted and obscured him. The opinions prevalent in one age, as truths above the reach of controversy, are confuted and rejected in another, and rise again to reception in<a id='GBS.PR92.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.107.1.0.box.164.198.859.507.q.60'>
remoter times. Thus the human mind is kept in motion without progress. Thus sometimes truth and error, and sometimes contrarieties of error, take each other&#39;s place by reciprocal invasion. The tide of seeming knowledge which is poured over one generation, retires and leaves another naked and barren; the sudden meteors of intelligence, which for a while appear to shoot their beams into the regions of obscurity, on a sudden withdraw their lustre, and leave mortals again to grope their way.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633393300017 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR92'></a>
<div id='block.107.1.0.box.164.198.859.1391.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR92.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.107.1.1.box.164.717.852.506.q.60'>These elevations and depressions of renown, and the contradictions to which all improvers of knowledge must for ever be exposed, since they are not escaped by the highest and brightest of mankind, may surely be endured with patience by criticks and annotators, who can rank themselves but as the satellites of their authors. How canst thou beg for life, says Homer&#39;s hero to his captive, when thou knowest that thou art now to suffer only what must another day be suffered by Achilles?</p>
<a id='GBS.PR92.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.107.1.2.box.170.1237.846.352.q.60'>Dr. Warburton had a name sufficient to confer celebrity on those who could exalt themselves into antagonists, and his notes have raised a clamour too loud to be distinct. His chief assailants are the authors of <i>The Canons of Criticism, </i>and of <i>The Revisal of Shakspeure&#39;s Text: </i>of whom one ridicules his errors with airy petulance, suitable enough to the levity<a id='GBS.PR93.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.108.1.0.box.81.174.854.556.q.60'>
of the controversy; the other attacks them with gloomy malignity, as if he were dragging to justice an assassin or incendiary. The one stings like a fly, sacks a little blood, takes a gay flutter, and returns for more; the other bites like a viper, and would be glad to leave inflammations and gangrene behind him. When T think on one, with his confederates, Iremember the danger of Coriolanus, who was afraid that <i>girls with spits, and boys with stones, should shy him in puny battle; </i>when the other crosses my imagination, I remember the prodigy in <i>Macbeth: </i></span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633394488262 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR93'></a>
<div id='block.108.1.0.box.81.174.855.1385.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR93.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body gtxt_lineated' id='para.108.1.1.box.236.808.591.76.q.50'>A falcon tow&#39;ring in his pride of place, <br/>Was by a mousing owl hawk&#39;d at and kill&#39;d. <br/></p>
<a id='GBS.PR93.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.108.1.2.box.87.951.849.444.q.60'>Let me however do them justice. One is a wit, and one a scholar. They have both shewn acuteness sufficient in the discovery of faults, and have both ad-&gt; vanced some probable interpretations of obscure passages; but when they aspire to conjecture and emendation, it appears how falsely we all estimate our own abilities, and the little which they have been able to perform might have taught them more candour to the endeavours of others.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR93.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.108.1.3.box.91.1418.845.141.q.60'>Before Dr. Warburton&#39;s edition, <i>Critical Observations on Shakspeare </i>had been published by Mr. Upton, a man skilled in languages, and acquainted with<a id='GBS.PR94.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.109.1.0.box.178.181.857.504.q.60'>
books, but who seems to have had no great vigour of genius or nicety of taste. Many of his explanations are curious and useful, but he likewise, though he professed to oppose the licentious confidence of editors and adhere to the old copies, is unable to restrain the rage of emendation, though his ardour is ill seconded by his skill. Every cold empirick, when his heart is expanded by a successful experiment, swells into a theorist, and the laborious collator at some unlucky moment frolicks in conjecture.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633395590466 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR94'></a>
<div id='block.109.1.0.box.175.181.860.1385.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR94.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.109.1.1.box.175.699.855.503.q.60'><i>Critical, historical, and explanatory Notes, </i>have been likewise published upon Shakspeare by Dr. Grey, whose diligent perusal of the old English writers has enabled him to make some useful observations. What he undertook he has well enough performed, but as he neither attempts judicial nor emendatory criticism, he employs rather his memory than his sagacity. It were to be wished that all would endeavour to imitate his modesty, who have not been able to surpass his knowledge.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR94.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.109.1.2.box.176.1216.852.350.q.60'>I can say with great sincerity of all my predecessors, what 1 hope will hereafter be said of me, that not one has left Shakspeare without improvement, nor is there one to whom I have not been indebted for assistance and information. Whatever I have taken from them, it was my intention to refer to its original author, and it is certain, that what I have not given to<a id='GBS.PR95.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.110.1.0.box.88.191.856.457.q.50'>
another, I believed when I wrote it to be my own. In some perhaps I have been anticipated; but if I am ever found to encroach upon the remarks of anyother commentator, I am willing ihat (he honour, be it more or less, should be transferred to the first claimant, for his right, and his alone, stands above dispute; the second can prove his pretensions only to himself, nor can himself always distinguish invention, with sufficient certainty, from recollection.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633396864440 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR95'></a>
<div id='block.110.1.0.box.88.191.858.1380.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR95.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.110.1.1.box.88.662.858.909.q.60'>They have all been treated by me with candour, which they have not been careful of observing to one another. It is not easy to discover from what cause the acrimony of a scholiast can naturally proceed. The subjects to be discussed by him are of very small importance; they involve neither property nor liberty; nor favour the interest of sect or party. The various readings of copies, and different interpretations of a passage, seem to be questions that might exercise the wit, without engaging the passions. But whether it be, that <i>small things make mean men proud, </i>and vanity catches small occasions; or that all contrariety of opinion, even in those that can defend it no longer, makes proud men angry; there is often found in commentaries a spontaneous strain of invective and contempt, more eager and venomous than is vented by the most furious controvertist in politicks against those whom he is hired to defame.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633398633284 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR96'></a>
<div id='block.111.1.0.box.160.176.862.1384.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR96.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.111.1.0.box.168.176.854.556.q.60'>Perhaps the lightness of the matter may conduce to the vehemence of the agency; when the truth to be investigated is so near to inexistence, as to escape attention, its bulk is to be enlarged by rage and exclamation: that to which all would be indifferent in its original state, may attract notice when the fate of a name is appended to it. A commentator has indeed great temptations to supply by turbulence what he wants of dignity, to beat his little gold to a spacious surface, to work that to foam which no art or diligence can exalt to spirit.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR96.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.111.1.1.box.169.747.849.235.q.60'>The notes which I have borrowed or written are either illustrative, by which difficulties are explained; or judicial, by which faults and beauties are remarked; or emendatory, by which depravations are corrected.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR96.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.111.1.2.box.166.1007.854.191.q.60'>The explanations transcribed from others, if I do not subjoin any other interpretation, I suppose commonly to be right, at least I intend by acquiescence to confess, that I have nothing better to propose.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR96.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.111.1.3.box.160.1210.857.350.q.60'>After the labours of all the editors, I found many passages which appeared to me likely to obstruct the greater number of readers, and thought it my duty to facilitate their passage. It is impossible for an expositor not to write too little for some, and too much for others. He can only judge what is necessary by his own experience; and how long soever he may de<a id='GBS.PR97.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.112.1.0.box.55.176.841.511.q.60'>liberate, will at last explain many lines which the learned will think impossible to be mistaken, and omit many for which the ignorant will want his help;: These are censures merely relative, and must be quietly endured. I have endeavoured to be neither superfluously copious, nor scrupulously reserved, and hope that I have made my author&#39;s meaning accessible to many, who before were frighted from perusing him, and contributed something to the publick, by diffusing innocent and rational pleasure.;</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633399656972 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR97'></a>
<div id='block.112.1.0.box.53.176.845.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR97.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.112.1.1.box.53.699.845.822.q.60'>The complete explanation of an author not systematick and consequential, but desultory and vagrant, abounding in casual allusions and light hints, is not to be expected from any single scholiast. All personal reflections, when names are suppressed, must be in a few years irrecoverably obliterated<i>; </i>and customs, too minute to attract the notice of law, such as modes of dress, formalities of conversation, rules of visits, disposition of furniture, and practices of ceremony, which naturally find places in familiar dialogue, are so fugitive and unsubstantial, that they are not easily retained or recovered. What can be known will be collected by chance, from the recesses of obscure and obsolete papers, perused commonly with some other view. Of this knowledge every man has.some, and none has much; but when an author has engaged the</p>
<a id='GBS.PR97.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.112.1.2.box.87.1532.392.33.q.60'>vot. i. h</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633400624199 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR98'></a>
<div id='block.113.1.0.box.192.179.858.1340.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR98.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.113.1.0.box.198.179.850.145.q.60'>publick attention, those who can add any tiling to his illustration, communicate their discoveries, and time produces what had eluded diligence.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR98.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.113.1.1.box.196.338.852.506.q.60'>To time I have been obliged to resign many passages, which, though I did not understand them, will perhaps hereafter be explained, having, I hope, illustrated some, which others have neglected or mistaken, sometimes by short remarks, or marginal directions, such as every editor has added at his will, and often by comments more laborious than the matter will seem to deserve; but that which is most difficult is not always most important, and to an editor nothing is a trifle by which his author is obscured.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR98.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.113.1.2.box.192.858.858.661.q.60'>The poetical beauties or defects I have not been very diligent to observe. Some plays have more, and some fewer judicial observations, not in proportion to their difference of merit, but because 1 gave this part of my design to chance and to caprice. The reader, I believe, is seldom pleased to find his opinion anticipated; it is natural to delight more in what we find or make, than in what we receive. Judgment, like other faculties, is improved by practice, and its advancement is hindered by submission to dictatorial decisions, as the memory grows torpid by the use of a table-book. Some initiation is however necessary; of all skill, part is infused by precept, and part is ob<a id='GBS.PR99.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.114.1.0.box.75.205.856.132.q.60'>tained by habit; I have therefore shewn so much as may enable the candidate of criticism to discover the rest.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633401498165 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR99'></a>
<div id='block.114.1.0.box.75.205.856.1390.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR99.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.114.1.1.box.77.360.852.498.q.60'>To the end of most plays I have added short strictures, containing a general censure of faults, or praise of excellence; in which I know not how much 1 have concurred with the current opinion; but I have not, by any affectation of singularity, deviated from it. Nothing is minutely and particularly examined, and therefore it is to be supposed, that in the plays which are condemned there is much to be praised, and in those which are praised much to be condemned.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR99.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.114.1.2.box.78.881.852.506.q.60'>The part of criticism in which the whole succession of editors has laboured with the greatest diligence, which has occasioned the most arrogant ostentation<i>; </i>and excited the keenest acrimony, is the emendation of corrupted passages, to which the publick attention having been first drawn by the violence of the contention between Pope and Theobald, has been continued by the persecution, which, with a kind of conspiracy, has been since raised against all the publishers of Shakspeare.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR99.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.114.1.3.box.85.1401.840.194.q.70'>That many passages have passed in a state of depravation through all the editions is indubitably certain; of these the restoration is only to be attempted by collation of copies, or sagacity of conjecture.<a id='GBS.PR100.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.115.1.0.box.160.197.863.195.q.60'>
The collator&#39;s province is safe and easy, the conjecturer&#39;s perilous and difficult. Yet as the greater part of the plays are extant only in one copy, the peril must not be avoided, nor the difficulty refused.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633402409101 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR100'></a>
<div id='block.115.1.0.box.160.197.865.1386.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR100.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.115.1.1.box.166.405.859.495.q.60'>Of the readings which this emulation of amendment has hitherto produced, some from the labours of every publisher I have advanced into the text; those are to be considered as in my opinion sufficiently supported; some I have rejected without mention, as evidently erroneous; some I have left in the notes without censure 01 approbation, as resting in equipoise between objection and defence<i>; </i>and some, which seemed specious but not right, I have inserted with a subsequent animadversion.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR100.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.115.1.2.box.169.922.856.661.q.60'>Having classed the observations of others, I was at last to try what I could substitute for their mistakes, and how I could supply their omissions. I collated such copies as I could procure, and wished for more, but have not found the collectors of these rarities very communicative. Of the editions which chance or kindness put into my hands I have given an enu&#187; meration, that I may not be blamed for neglecting what I had not the power to do. . By examining the old copies, I soon found that the later publishers, with all their boasts of diligence, suffered many passages to stand unauthorized, and con&#171; tented themselves with Rgwe&#39;s regulation of the text,<a id='GBS.PR101.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.116.1.0.box.71.189.861.866.q.60'>
even where they knew it to be arbitrary, and with a little consideration might have found it to be wrong. Some of these alterations are only the ejection of a word for one that appeared to him more elegant or more intelligible. These corruptions I have often silently rectified; for the history of our language, and the true force of our words, can only be preserved, by keeping the text of authors free from adulteration. Others, and those very frequent, smoothed, the cadence, or regulated the measure<i>; </i>on these Ihave not exercised the same rigour; if only a word was transposed, or a particle inserted or omitted, I have sometimes suffered the line to stand; for the inconstancy of the copies is such, as that some liberties may be easily permitted. But this practice I have not suffered *o proceed far, having restored the primitive diction wherever it could for any reason be preferred.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633403733600 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR101'></a>
<div id='block.116.1.0.box.71.189.870.1438.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR101.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.116.1.1.box.73.1068.861.246.q.70'>The emendations, which comparison of copies supplied, I have inserted in the text; sometimes, where the improvement was slight, without notice, and sometimes with an account of the reasons of the change.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR101.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.116.1.2.box.75.1327.866.300.q.50'>. Conjecture, though it be sometimes unavoidable&gt; I have not wantonly nor licentiously indulged. It &#8226;has been my settled principle, that the reading of the ancient books is probably true, and therefore is <sub>;</sub>not to be disturbed for the sake of elegance, perspicuity, or mere improvement of the sense. For though<a id='GBS.PR102.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.117.1.0.box.178.178.859.454.q.60'>
much credit is not due to the fidelity, nor any to the judgment of the first publishers, yet they who had the copy before their eyes were more likely to read it right, than we who read it only by imagination. But it is evident that they have often made strange mistakes by ignorance or negligence, and that therefore something may be properly attempted by criticism, keeping the middle way between presumption and timidity.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633404650353 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR102'></a>
<div id='block.117.1.0.box.173.178.869.1432.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR102.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.117.1.1.box.181.645.861.764.q.60'>Such criticism I have attempted to practise, and where any passage appeared inextricably perplexed, have endeavoured to discover how it may be recalled to sense, with least violence. But my first labour is, always to turn the old text on every side, and try if there be any interstice, through which light can find its way; nor would Huetius himself condemn me, as refusing the trouble of research, for the ambition of alteration. In this modest industry I have not been unsuccessful. I have rescued many lines from the violations of temerity, and secured many scenes from the inroads of correction. I have adopted the Roman sentiment, that it is more honourable to save a citizen, than to kill an enemy, and have been more careful to protect than to attack.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR102.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.117.1.2.box.173.1423.868.187.q.60'>I have preserved the common distribution of the .plays into acts, though I believe it to be in almost all the plays void of authority. Some of those which are divided in the later editions have no division in the<a id='GBS.PR103.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.118.1.0.box.100.193.856.864.q.60'>
first folio, and some that are divided in the folio have no division in the preceding copies. The settled mode of the theatre requires four intervals in the play, but few, if any, of our author&#39;s compositions can be properly distributed in that manner. An act is so much of the drama as passes without intervention of time, or change of place. A pause makes a new act. In every real, and therefore in every imitative action, the intervals may be more or fewer, the restriction of five acts being accidental and arbitrary, This Shakspeare knew, and this he practised<i>; </i>his plays were written, and at first printed in one unbroken continuity, and ought now to be exhibited with short pauses, interposed as often as the scene is changed, or any considerable time is required to pass. This method would at once quell a thousand absurdities.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633405701242 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR103'></a>
<div id='block.118.1.0.box.100.193.868.1387.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR103.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='font-size:102%;text-align:right;' id='para.118.1.1.box.960.1059.8.10.q.101'>.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR103.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.118.1.2.box.101.1076.860.453.q.60'>In restoring the author&#39;s works to their integrity, I have considered the punctuation as wholly in <i>my </i>power; for what could be their care of colons and commas, who corrupted words and sentences? Whatever could be done by adjusting points, is therefore silently performed, in some plays, with much diligence, in others with less; it is hard to keep a busy eye steadily fixed upon evanescent atoms, or a discursive mind upon evanescent truth.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR103.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.118.1.3.box.138.1539.818.41.q.70'>The same liberty has been taken with a few partis</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633407879600 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR104'></a>
<div id='block.119.1.0.box.146.201.863.1393.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR104.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.119.1.0.box.148.201.851.245.q.60'>cles, or other words of slight effect. I have sometimes inserted or omitted them without notice. I have done that sometimes, which the other editors have done always, and which indeed the state of the text may sufficiently justify.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR104.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.119.1.1.box.150.463.856.454.q.60'>The greater part of readers, instead of blaming us for passing trifles, will wonder that on mere trifles so much labour is expended, with such importance of debate, and such solemnity of diction. To these I answer with confidence, that they are judging of an art which they do not understand; yet cannot much reproach them with their ignorance, nor promise that they would become in general, by learning criticism, more useful, happier, or wiser.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR104.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.119.1.2.box.153.930.855.246.q.50'>As I practised conjecture more, I learned to trust it less; and after I had printed a few plays, resolved to insert none of my own readings in the text. Upon this caution I now congratulate myself, for ever day increases my doubt of my emendations.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR104.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.119.1.3.box.146.1189.863.405.q.50'>Since I have confined my imagination to the margin, it must not be considered as very reprehensible, if I have suffered it to play some freaks in its own dominion. There is no danger in conjecture, if it be proposed as conjecture; and while the text remains &quot;uninjured,<sup>-</sup>&quot;those changes may be safely offered. which are not considered even by him that offers them as necessary or safe.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633409453394 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR105'></a>
<div id='block.120.1.0.box.84.200.888.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR105.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.120.1.0.box.84.200.885.765.q.60'>&#8226; If&#39; my readings are of little value, they have not . &#39;been ostentatiously displayed or importunately obtruded. I could have written longer notes, for the art of writing notes is not of difficult attainment. The work is performed, first by railing at the stupidity, negligence, ignorance; and asinine tastelessness of the former editors, and shewing, from all that goes before and all that follows, the inelegance and absurdity of the old reading; then by proposing something, which to superficial readers would seem specious, but which the editor rejects with indignation; then by producing the true reading, with a long paraphrase, and concluding with loud acclamations on the discovery, and a sober wish for the advancement and prosperity of genuine criticism.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR105.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.120.1.1.box.113.978.859.401.q.60'>All this may be done, and perhaps done sometime* without impropriety. But I have always suspected that the reading is right, which requires many words to prove it wrong; and the emendation wrong, that cannot without so much labour appear to be rights The justness of a happy restoration strikes at once,and the moral precept may be well applied to criticism, <i>quod dulitas nefeceris. </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR105.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.120.1.2.box.116.1391.856.198.q.50'>To dread the shore which he sees spread with ,wrecks, &#8226; is natural to the sailor. J had before my eye so many critical adventures ending in miscarriage, that caution was forced upon me. I encoun<a id='GBS.PR106.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.121.1.0.box.147.184.859.392.q.60'>tered in every page wit struggling with its own sophistry, and learning confused by the multiplicity of its views. I was. forced to censure those whom I admired, and could not but reflect, while I was dispossessing their emendations, how soon the same fate might happen to my own, and how many of the readings which I have corrected may be by some other editor defended and established.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633410984865 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR106'></a>
<div id='block.121.1.0.box.135.184.871.1387.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR106.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body gtxt_lineated' id='para.121.1.1.box.193.663.729.167.q.50'>  Criticks I saw, that others&#39; names efface, <br/>  And fix their own, with labour, in the place; <br/>&#39;Their own, like others, soon their place resign&#39;d, <br/>  Or disappear&#39;d, and left the first behind. Po?E. <br/></p>
<a id='GBS.PR106.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.121.1.2.box.135.906.860.612.q.60'>That a conjectural critick should often be mistaken, cannot be wonderful, either to others or himself, if it be considered, that in his art there is no system, no principal and axiomatical truth that regulates subordinate positions. His chance of error is renewed at every attempt; an oblique view of the passage, a slight misapprehension of a phrase, a casual inattention to the parts connected, is sufficient to make him not only fail, but fail ridiculously; and when he succeeds best he produces perhaps but one reading of many probable, and he that suggests another will al&#187; ways be able to dispute his claims.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR106.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.121.1.3.box.175.1531.812.40.q.60'>It is an unhappy state, in which danger is hid un&#187;</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633412101328 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR107'></a>
<div id='block.122.1.0.box.115.186.872.1383.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR107.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.122.1.0.box.115.186.863.246.q.60'>der pleasure. The allurements of emendation are scarcely resistible. Conjecture has all the joy and all the pride of invention, and he that has once started a happy change, is too much delighted to consider what objections may rise against it.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR107.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.122.1.1.box.124.444.863.1125.q.60'>Yet conjectural criticism has been of great use in the learned world; nor is it my intention to depreciate a study, that has exercised so many mighty minds, from the revival of learning to our own age, from the Bishop of Aleria to English Bentley. The criticks on ancient authors have, in the exercise of their sagacity, many assistances, which the editor of Shakspeare is condemned to want. They are employed upon grammatical and settled languages, whose construction contributes so much to perspicuity, that Homer has fewer passages unintelligible than Chaucer. The words have not only a known regimen, but invariable quantities, which direct and confine the choice. There are commonly more manuscripts than one; and they do not often conspire in the same mistakes. Yet Scaliger could confess to Salmasius how little satisfaction his emendations gave him. <i>Illudunt nobis conjecturte nostroe, quarum nos pudet, posteaquam in meliores codices incidimus. </i>And Lipsius could complain, that criticks were making faults, by trying to remove them, <i>Ut olim vitiis, ita nunc rcmediis laboratur. </i>And indeed, where mere<a id='GBS.PR108.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.123.1.0.box.120.182.851.187.q.60'>
conjecture is to be used, the emendations of Scaliger and Lipsius, notwithstanding their wonderful sagacity and erudition, are often vague and disputable, like mine or Theobald&#39;s.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633413363206 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR108'></a>
<div id='block.123.1.0.box.119.182.858.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR108.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.123.1.1.box.119.390.858.1181.q.60'>Perhaps I may not be more censured for doing wrong, than for doing little; for raising in the publick expectations, what at last I have not answered. The expectation of ignorance is indefinite, and that of knowledge is often tyrannical. It is hard to satisfy those who know not what to demand, or those who demand by design what they think impossible to be done. I have indeed disappointed no opinion more .thanmy own; yet I have endeavoured to perform my task with no slight solicitude. Not a single passage in the whole work has appeared to me corrupt, which I have not attempted to restore; or obscure, which I have not endeavoured to illustrate. In many I have .failed like others; and from many, after all my efforts, I have retreated, and confessed the repulse. &#163; have not passed over, with affected superiority^ what is equally difficult to the reader and to myself j but where I could not instruct him, have owned my ,ignorance. I might easily have accumulated a mass of seeming learning upon easy scenes; but it ought not to be imputed to negligence, that where nothing -was necessary, nothing has been done, or that, where others have said enough, I have said no more.&#39;</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633414216068 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR109'></a>
<div id='block.124.1.0.box.105.197.860.1390.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR109.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.124.1.0.box.105.197.860.758.q.60'>&#39;Notes are often necessary, but they are necessary evils. Let him, that is yet unacquainted with the powers of Shakspeare, and who desires to feel the highest pleasure that the drama can give, read every play, from the first scene to the last, with utter negligence of all his commentators. When his fancy is once on the wing, let it not stoop at correction or explanation. When his attention is strongly engaged, let it disdain alike to turn aside to the name of Theobald and of Pope. Let him read on through brightness and obscurity, through integrity and corruption; let him preserve his comprehension of the dialogue and his interest in the fable. And when the pleasures of novelty have ceased, let him attempt exactness, and read the commentators.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR109.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.124.1.1.box.105.977.856.299.q.60'>Particular passages are cleared by notes, but the general effect of the work is weakened. The mind is refrigerated by interruption; the thoughts are diverted from the principal subject; the reader is weary, he suspects not why; and at last throws away the book which he has too diligently studied.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR109.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.124.1.2.box.107.1288.854.299.q.70'>Parts are not to be examined till the whole has been surveyed; there is a kind of intellectual remoteness necessary for the comprehension of any great work in its full design and in its true proportions; a close approach shows the smaller niceties, but the beauty of the whole is discerned no longer.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633415044955 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR110'></a>
<div id='block.125.1.0.box.139.190.863.1391.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR110.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.125.1.0.box.139.190.863.1342.q.60'>It is not very grateful to consider how little the Succession of editors has added to this author&#39;s power of pleasing. He was read, admired, studied, and imitated, while he was yet deformed with all the improprieties which ignorance and neglect could accumulate upon him; while the reading was yet not rectified, nor his allusions understood; yet then did Dryden pronounce, that Shakspeare was the man, who, of all modern and perhaps ancient poets, had the largest and most comprehensive soul. All the images of nature were still present to him, and he drew them not laboriously, but luckily: when he describes any thing, you more than see it, you feel it too. Those, who accuse him to have wanted learning, give him the greater commendation; he was naturally learned; he needed not the spectacles of books to read nature; he looked inwards, and found her there. I cannot say he is every where alike; were he so, I should do him injury to compare him with the greatest of mankind. He is many times flat and insipid; his comick wit degenerating into clenches, his serious swelling into bombast. But he is always great, when some great occasion is presented to him <i>t </i>no man can say, he ever had a fit subject for his wit, and did not then raise himself as high above the rest of poets,</p>
<a id='GBS.PR110.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.125.1.1.box.247.1550.755.31.q.70'>2nantmr. lenta selent inter viburnaoupretti.- . . <i>&#39;., </i></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633416012082 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR111'></a>
<div id='block.126.1.0.box.120.183.862.1429.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR111.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.126.1.0.box.120.183.862.715.q.60'>It is to be lamented, that such a writer should want a commentary; that his language should become obsolete, or his sentiments obscure. But it is vain to carry wishes beyond the condition of human things; that which must happen to all, has happened to Shakspeare, by accident and time; and more than has been suffered by any other writer since the use of types, has been suffered by him through his own negligence of fame, or perhaps by that superiority of mind, which despised its own performances, when it compared them with its powers, and judged those works unworthy to be preserved, which the criticks of following ages were to contend for the fame of restoring and explaining.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR111.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.126.1.1.box.121.910.857.390.q.60'>Among these candidates of inferior fame, I am now to stand the judgment of the publick; and wish that I could confidently produce my commentary as equal to the encouragement which I have had the honour of receiving. Every work of this kind is by its nature deficient, and I should feel little solicitude about the sentence, were it to be pronounced only by the skilful and the learned.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR111.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.126.1.2.box.121.1324.858.247.q.60'>Of what has been performed in this revisal, an account is given by Mr. Steevens, who might have spoken both of his own diligence and sagacity, in terms of greater self-approbation, without deviating from modesty or truth.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR111.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-align:right;' id='para.126.1.3.box.810.1583.166.29.q.70'><span style='font-variant:small-caps;'>Johnson. </span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633416658077 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
</div>

</body></html>