<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head><title>The Plays of William Shakespeare</title>
<style type="text/css">
.flow {
  margin: 0;
  font-size: 1em;
}
.flow .pagebreak {
  page-break-before: always;
}
.flow p {
  text-align: left;
  text-indent: 0;
  margin-top: 0;
  margin-bottom: 0.5em;
}
.flow .gstxt_sup {
  font-size: 75%;
  position: relative;
  bottom: 0.5em;
}
.flow .gstxt_sub {
  font-size: 75%;
  position: relative;
  top: 0.3em;
}
.flow .gstxt_hlt {
  background-color: yellow;
}
.flow div.gtxt_inset_box {
  padding: 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em;
  margin: 1em 1em 1em 1em;
  border: 1px black solid;
}
.flow div.gtxt_footnote {
  padding: 0 0.5em 0 0.5em;
  border: 1px black dotted;
}
.flow .gstxt_underline {
  text-decoration: underline;
}
.flow .gtxt_heading {
  text-align: center;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
  font-size: 150%;
  font-weight: bold;
  font-variant: small-caps;
}
.flow .gtxt_h1_heading {
  text-align: center;
  font-size: 120%;
  font-weight: bold;
}
.flow .gtxt_h2_heading {
  font-size: 110%;
  font-weight: bold;
}
.flow .gtxt_h3_heading {
  font-weight: bold;
}
.flow .gtxt_lineated {
  margin-left: 2em;
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
  white-space: pre-wrap;
}
.flow .gtxt_lineated_code {
  margin-left: 2em;
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
  white-space: pre-wrap;
  font-family: monospace;
}
.flow .gtxt_quote {
  margin-left: 2em;
  margin-right: 2em;
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
}
.flow .gtxt_list_entry {
  margin-left: 2ex;
  text-indent: -2ex;
}
.flow .gimg_graphic {
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
}
.flow .gimg_table {
  margin-top: 1em;
  margin-bottom: 1em;
}
.flow {
  font-family: serif;
}
.flow span,p {
  font-family: inherit;
}

</style></head>
<body>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633292323848 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR1'></a>
<div id='block.12.0.0.box.84.272.846.1327.q.70' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR1.w.0.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='font-size:113%;text-align:center;' id='para.12.0.0.box.364.272.286.43.q.80'>PREFACE.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR1.w.0.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='font-size:102%;' id='para.12.0.1.box.84.458.846.512.q.70'><span style='font-variant:small-caps;'>Jriends </span>of learning and admirers of genius will not be very forward to complain that editions of great and favourite authors are too variously multiplied. Experience has taught them, in the course of their own researches, that by the repeated efforts of succeeding editors, difficulty is removed and simplicity restored.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR1.w.0.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='font-size:102%;text-indent:1em;' id='para.12.0.2.box.84.1003.842.596.q.60'>Among the whole race of writers, ancient and modern, no one has, perhaps, needed more the assistance of commentators, or been more plentifully supplied with it, than the illustrious bard whose works are here presented to the public. Shakspeare&#39;s wonderful exuberance of fancy, and the vast rapidity with which his mind assimilated images, could not always be restrained by the necessary duty of correct and<a id='GBS.PR2.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.13.1.0.box.154.180.853.529.q.60'>
determinate expression:&#8212;it is not then difficult to conceive what must be the miserable state of such a poet&#39;s language, when it had passed a few times through the hands of incorrect players and blundering transcribers. Whoever casts his eyes over the <i>&#39;</i>stubborn nonsense&#39; of the early editions will not fail to acknowledge his obligations to the critics.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633293081335 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR2'></a>
<div id='block.13.1.0.box.154.180.853.1414.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR2.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='font-size:102%;text-indent:1em;' id='para.13.1.1.box.155.731.850.661.q.60'>The best designed undertaking, however, may be rendered faulty in the execution of it. Notes have been heaped upon this author, till even his mighty frame is oppressed with the load. In some instances, pages are thrown away, by the numerous commentators, in explaining what was not at first difficult; and, in others, taunts and sarcasms determine the reader to an opinion that they sought Shakspeare&#39;s fame less than their own.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR2.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='font-size:102%;text-indent:1em;' id='para.13.1.2.box.159.1409.845.185.q.60'>The present Editor did not set out with the design of making notes, though in a few places he could not avoid it. His purpose was to<a id='GBS.PR2-IA1.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.14.1.0.box.79.154.847.183.q.70'>
<i>retrench; </i>and to attach to his author such remarks only, from the various annotators, as are really illustrative of his dark passages.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633294290541 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR2-IA1'></a>
<div id='block.14.1.0.box.47.154.880.1141.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR2-IA1.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='font-size:102%;text-indent:1em;' id='para.14.1.1.box.47.361.880.934.q.60'>Of the typographical execution of this work little commendation will be necessary to the reader of taste. Besides the very heavy expence of fine paper and superior printing, more than two thousand guineas have been expended by the Proprietor in embellishments j for it was his desire, and he flatters himself that he has not failed in it, to give to the world an highly ornamented set of the Plays of Shakspeare. How far the Editor has succeeded in his de. partment is a different consideration: all that he can say is, he has done his best; and with this reflection on his mind he is not afraid to submit his labours to the public.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633294970270 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633296108180 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR2-IA3'></a>
<div id='block.16.0.0.box.465.276.70.20.q.70' class='gtxt_body' style='margin-bottom: 1.5em;'>
<a id='GBS.PR2-IA3.w.0.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-align:center;' id='para.16.0.0.box.465.276.70.20.q.70'>SOME</p>
</div>
<div id='block.16.1.0.box.228.362.547.34.q.90' class='gtxt_body' style='margin-bottom: 1.5em;'>
<a id='GBS.PR2-IA3.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='font-size:104%;text-indent:1em;' id='para.16.1.0.box.228.362.547.34.q.90'>ACCOUNT OF THE LIFE</p>
</div>
<div id='block.16.2.0.box.79.587.855.1043.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR2-IA3.w.2.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='font-size:113%;' id='para.16.2.0.box.95.587.816.46.q.90'>WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR2-IA3.w.2.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-align:center;' id='para.16.2.1.box.351.720.307.19.q.60'><i>WRiTTEN BY MR. RoWE. </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR2-IA3.w.2.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.16.2.2.box.79.819.855.811.q.60'>IT seems to be a kind of respect due to the memory of excellent men, especially of those whom their wit and learning have made famous, to deliver some account of themselves, as well as their works, to posterity. For this reason, how fond do we see some people of discovering any little personal story of the great men of antiquity! their families, the common accidents of their lives, and even their shape, make, and features, have been the subject of critical inquiries. How trifling soever this curiosity may seem to be, it is certainly very natural; and we are hardly satisfied with an account of any remarkable person, till we have heard him described even to the very clothes he wears. As for what relates to men of letters, the knowledge of an author may sometimes conduce to <span style='font-variant:small-caps;'>Vol. </span><i>i. </i>b</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633297061983 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR2-IA4'></a>
<div id='block.17.1.0.box.153.195.875.1396.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR2-IA4.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.17.1.0.box.153.195.863.250.q.60'>the better understanding his book<i>; </i>and though the works of Mr. Shakspeare may seem to many not to want a comment, yet I fancy some little account of the man himself may not be thought improper to go along with them.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR2-IA4.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.17.1.1.box.157.456.871.1135.q.60'>He was the son of Mr. John Shakspeare, and was born at Stratford-upon-Avon, in Warwickshire, in April 1564. His family, as appears by the register apd public writings relating to that town, were of good figure and fashion there, and are mentioned as gentlemen. His father, who was a considerable dealer in wool, had so large a family, ten children in all, that though he was his eldest son, he could give him no better education than his own employment. He had bred him, it is true, for some time at a freeschool, where, it is probable, he acquired what Latin he was master of: but the narrowness of his circumstances, and the want of his assistance at home, forced his father to withdraw him from thence, and unhappily prevented his further proficiency in that language. It is without controversy, that in his works we scarce find any traces of any thing that looks like an imitation of the ancients. The delicacy of his taste, and the natural bent of his own great genius, (equal, if not superior, to some of the best of theirs,) would certainly have led him to read and study them with so much pleasure, that some of. their fine images<a id='GBS.PR3.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.18.1.0.box.81.171.860.965.q.60'>
would naturally have insinuated themselves into, and been mixed with, his own writings; so that his not copying at least something from them, may be an argument of his never having read them. Whether hit ignorance of the ancients were a disadvantage to him or no, may admit of a dispute: for though the knowledge of them might have made him more correct, yet it is not improbable but that the regularity and deference for them, which would have attended that correctness, might have restrained some of that fire, impetuosity, and even beautiful extravagance, which we admire in Shakspeare: and I believe we are better pleased with those thoughts, altogether new and uncommon, which his own imagination supplied him so abundantly with, than if he had given us the most beautiful passages out of the Greek and Latin poets, and that in the most agreeable manner that it was possible for a master of the English language to deliver them.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633299034337 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR3'></a>
<div id='block.18.1.0.box.72.171.869.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR3.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.18.1.1.box.72.1156.869.404.q.60'>Upon his leaving school, he seems to have given entirely into that way of living which his father proposed to him; and in order to settle in the world after a family manner, he thought fit to marry while he was yet very young. His wife was the daughter of one Hathaway, said to have been a substantial yeoman in the neighbourhood of Stratford. In this kind of settlement he continued for some time, till an extrava<a id='GBS.PR4.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.19.1.0.box.159.197.866.1020.q.60'>
gance that he was guilty of forced him both out of his country, and that way of living which he had taken up; and though it seemed at first to be a blemish upon his good manners, and a misfortune to him, yet it afterwards happily proved the occasion of exerting one of the greatest <i>geniuses </i>that ever was known in dramatic poetry. He had by a misfortune common enough to young fellows, fallen into ill company; and amongst them, some that made a frequent practice of deer-stealing, engaged him more than once in robbing a park that belonged to Sir Thomas Lucy, of Charlecote, near Stratford. For this he was prosecuted by that gentleman, as he thought, somewhat too severely; and in order to revenge that ill usage, he made a ballad upon him. And though this, probably the first essay of his poetry, be lost, yet it is said to have been so very bitter, that it redoubled the prosecution against him to that degree, that he was obliged to leave his business and family in Warwickshire, for some time, and shelter himself in London.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633300577782 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR4'></a>
<div id='block.19.1.0.box.159.197.867.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR4.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.19.1.1.box.166.1236.860.350.q.60'>It is at this time, and upon this accident, that he is said to have made his first acquaintance in the playhouse. He was received into the company then in being, at first in a very mean rank; but his admirable wit, and the natural turn of it to the stage, soon distinguished him, if not as an extraordinary actor, yet as an excellent writer. His name is printed, as the<a id='GBS.PR5.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.20.1.0.box.63.206.854.1397.q.60'>
custom was in those times, amongst those of the other pteyers, before some old plays, but without any particular account of what sort of parts he used to play; and though I have inquired, I could never meet with any further account of him this way, than that the top of his performance was the Ghost in his own <i>Hamlet. </i>I should have been much more pleased to have learned from certain authority which was the first play he wrote; it would be without doubt a pleasure to any man, curious in things of this kind, to see and know what was the first essay of a fancy like Shakspeare&#39;s. Perhaps we are not to look for his beginnings, &#39; like those of other authors, among their least perfect writings; art had so little, and nature so large a share in what he did, that, for aught I know, the performances of his youth, as they were the most vigorous, and had the most fire and strength of imagination in them, were the best. I would not be thought by tin&#39;s to mean that his fancy was so loose and extravagant as to be independent on the rule and government of judgment; but that what he thought was commonly so great, so justly and rightly conceived in itself, that it wanted little or no correction, and was immediately approved by an impartial judgment at the first sight. But though the order of time in which the several pieces were written be generally uncertain, yet there are passages in some few of them</span><a id='GBS.PR6.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.21.1.0.box.158.186.874.1238.q.60'>
which seem to fix their dates. So the <i>Churns </i>at the end of the fourth act <i>of Henry the Fijth, </i>by a compliment very handsomely turned to the earl of Essex, shows the play to have been written when that lord was general for the queen in Ireland; and his elogy upon queen Elizabeth, and her successor king James, in the latter end of his <i>Henry the Eighth, </i>is a proof of that play&#39;s being written after the accession of the latter of those two princes to the crown of England. Whatever the particular times of his writing were, the people of his age, who began to grow wonderfully fond of diversions of this kind, could not but be highly pleased to see a genius arise amongst them of so pleasurable, so rich a vein, and so plentifully capable of furnishing their favourite entertainments. Besides the advantages of his wit, he was in himself a good-natured man, of great sweetness in his manr ners, and a most agreeable companion -. so that&#39; it k no wonder, if, with so many good qualities, he made himself acquainted with the best conversations of those times. Queen Elizabeth had several of his plays acted before her, and without doubt gave him many gracious marks of her favour: it is that maiden princess plainly, whom he intends by</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633302009092 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR5'></a>
<div id='block.20.1.0.box.63.206.854.1397.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633302981706 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR6'></a>
<div id='block.21.1.0.box.158.186.875.1405.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR6.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.21.1.1.box.246.1448.537.30.q.60'>i. a fair vestal, throned by the west:</p>
<a id='GBS.PR6.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-align:right;' id='para.21.1.2.box.650.1493.383.32.q.70'><i>A Midsummef-NighCs Dream. </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR6.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.21.1.3.box.177.1551.855.40.q.70'>and that whole passage is a compliment very properly<a id='GBS.PR7.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.22.1.0.box.78.195.859.1393.q.60'>
brought in, and veiy handsomely applied to her. She Mas so well pleased with that admirable character o&#163; FalstafF, in The Two Parts of <i>Henry the Fourth, </i>that she commanded him to continue it for one play more, and to show him in love. This is said to be the occasion of his writing <i>The Merry Wives of Windsor^ </i>How well she was obeyed, the play itself is an admirable proof. Upon this occasion it may not be improper to observe, that this part of FalstafF is said to have been written originally under the name of <i>Oldcastle: </i>some of that family being then remaining, the queen was pleased to command him to alter it; upon which he made use of FalstafF. The present offence was indeed avoided; but I do not know whether the author may not have been somewhat to blame in his second choice, since it is certain that sir John FalstafF, who was a knight of the garter, and a lieutenant-general, was a name of distinguished merit in the wars in France, in Henry the Fifth&#39;s and Henry the Sixth&#39;s times. What grace soever the queen conferred upon him, it was not to her only he owed the fortune which the reputation of. his wit made. He had the honour to meet with many great and uncommon marks of favour and friendship from the earl of Souths ampton, famous in the histories of that time for his friendship to the unfortunate earl of Essex. It was to that noble lord that he dedicated his poem of <i>Venus </i></span><a id='GBS.PR8.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.23.1.0.box.145.189.859.612.q.60'>
<i>and&#39; Adonis. </i>There is one instance so singular in the magnificence of this patron of Shakspeare&#39;s, that if I had not been assured that the story was handed down by Sir William d&#39;Avenant, who was probably very well acquainted with his affairs, I should not have ventured to have inserted; that my lord Southampton at one time gave him a thousand pounds, to enable him to go through with a purchase which he heard he had a mind to. A bounty very great, and very rare at any time, and almost equal to that profuse generosity the present age has shown to French dancers and Italian singers.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633304576819 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR7'></a>
<div id='block.22.1.0.box.78.195.859.1393.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633305394930 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR8'></a>
<div id='block.23.1.0.box.145.189.865.1394.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR8.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.23.1.1.box.147.816.863.454.q.60'>&#39;What particular habitude or friendships he contracted with private men, I have not been able to learn, more than that every one, who had a true taste of merit, and could distinguish men, had generally a just value and esteem for him. His exceeding candour and good-nature must certainly have inclined all the gentler part of the world to love him, as the power of his wit obliged the men of the most delicate knowledge and polite learning to admire him.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR8.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.23.1.2.box.150.1284.858.299.q.60'>His acquaintance with Ben Jonson began with a remarkable piece of humanity and good-nature. Mr. Jonson, who was at that time altogether unknown to the world, had offered one of his plays to the players, in order to have it acted; and the persons into whose hands it was put, after having turned it carelessly and<a id='GBS.PR9.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.24.1.0.box.81.189.858.1235.q.60'>
superciliously over, were just upon returning it to him with an ill-natured answer, that it would be of no service to their company; when Shakspeare luckily cast his eye upon it, and found something so well in it, as to engage him first to read it through, and afterwards to recommend Mr. Jonson and hiswritings to the public. Jonson was certainly a very good scholar, and in that had the advantage of Shakspeare; though at the same time I believe it must be allowed, that what nature gave the latter was more than a balance for what books had given the former; ;:nd the judgment of a great man upon this occasion was, I think, very just and proper. In a conversation between Sir John Suckling, Sir William D&#39;Avenant, Endymion Porter, Mr. Hales of Eton, and Ben Jonson, Sir John Suckling, who was a professed admirer of Shakspeare, had undertaken his defence against Ben Jonson with some warmth; Mr. Hales, who had sat still for some time, told them, <i>That if Mr. Shakspeare had not read the ancients, he had likewise nut stolen any thing from them; and that if&#39; he would produce any one topic finely treated by any one of them, he would undertake to shew something upon the same subject at least as well written by Shakspeare. </i></span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633306132714 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR9'></a>
<div id='block.24.1.0.box.81.189.860.1343.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR9.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.24.1.1.box.87.1436.854.96.q.60'>The latter part of his life was spent, as all men of good sense will wish theirs may be, in ease, retire<a id='GBS.PR10.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.25.1.0.box.142.171.863.920.q.60'>ment, and the conversation of his friends. He had the good fortune to gather an estate equal to his occasion, and, in that, to his wish; and is said to have spent some years before his death at his native Stratford. His pleasurable wit and good-nature engaged him in the acquaintance, and entitled him to the friendship, of the gentlemen of the neighbourhood. Amongst them, it is a story almost still remembered in that country that he had a particular intimacy with Mr. Combe, an old gentleman noted thereabouts for his wealth and usury<i>: </i>it happened, that in a pleasant conversation amongst their common friends, Mr. Combe told Shakspeare, in a laughing manner, that he fancied he intended to write his epitaph, if he happened to out-live him; and since he could not know what might be said of him when he was dead, he desired it might be done immediately; upon which Shakspeare gave him these four verses:</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633307020655 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR10'></a>
<div id='block.25.1.0.box.142.171.865.1337.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR10.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.25.1.1.box.229.1116.519.31.q.60'>&quot;<i>Ten in the hundred </i>lies here engraved;</p>
<a id='GBS.PR10.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.25.1.2.box.229.1161.588.25.q.60'>&quot;&#39;Tis a hundred to ten his soul is not sav&#39;d:</p>
<a id='GBS.PR10.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.25.1.3.box.230.1206.561.30.q.50'>&quot;If any man ask, Who lies in this tomb?</p>
<a id='GBS.PR10.w.1.4.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.25.1.4.box.232.1251.709.31.q.50'>&quot;Oh! ho! quoth the devil, &#39;tis my John-a-Combe.&quot;</p>
<a id='GBS.PR10.w.1.5.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.25.1.5.box.155.1308.852.91.q.60'>But the sharpness of the satire is said to have stung the man so severely, that he never forgave it.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR10.w.1.6.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.25.1.6.box.155.1413.850.95.q.60'>He died in the fifty-third year of his age, and was juried on the north side of the chancel, in the great<a id='GBS.PR11.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.26.1.0.box.94.182.859.90.q.50'>
church at Stratford, where a monument is placed in&#39; the wall. On his grave-stone underneath is, *</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633307764745 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR11'></a>
<div id='block.26.1.0.box.87.182.867.1392.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR11.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.26.1.1.box.166.300.512.29.q.60'>&quot;Good friend, for Jesus&#39; sake forbear</p>
<a id='GBS.PR11.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.26.1.2.box.163.345.432.30.q.70'>&quot;To dig the dust inclosed here.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR11.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.26.1.3.box.162.392.792.29.q.70'>&quot;Blest be the man that spares these stones,<i>&#39; </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR11.w.1.4.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.26.1.4.box.163.436.563.31.q.60'>** And curst be he that moves my bones.&quot;</p>
<a id='GBS.PR11.w.1.5.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.26.1.5.box.87.494.865.447.q.50'>He had three daughters, of which two lived to be&#39; married j Judith, the elder, to one Mr. Thomas Ouiney, by whom she had three sons, who all died&#39; without children; and Susanna, who was his favourite, to Dr. John Hall, a physician of good reputation&#39; in that country. She left one child only, a daughter, who was married first to Thomas Nashe, esq. and* afterwards to Sir John Barnard of Abington, but died likewise without issue.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR11.w.1.6.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.26.1.6.box.92.966.854.246.q.60'>This is what I could learn of any note, either relating to himself or family: the character of the man is best seen in his writings. But since Ben Jonson has made a sort of an essay towards it in his <i>Discoveries, </i>I will give it in his words:</p>
<a id='GBS.PR11.w.1.7.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.26.1.7.box.94.1227.855.347.q.60'>&quot;I remember the players have often mentioned it &quot;as an honour to Shakspeare, that in writing (what&quot;soever he penned) he never blotted out a line. My &quot;answer hath been, <i>Would he had blotted a thousand! &quot;</i>which they thought a malevolent speech. I had &quot;not told posterity this, but for their ignorance, who &quot;chose that circumstance to commend their friend<a id='GBS.PR12.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.27.1.0.box.139.175.856.663.q.60'>
&#39;* <i>by<sub>T</sub> </i>wherein he most faulted: and to justify mine &quot;own candour, for I loved the man, and do honour &quot;his memory, on this side idolatry, as much as any. &quot;He was, indeed, honest, and of an open and free <i>&quot;</i>nature, had an excellent fancy, brave notions, and &quot;gentle expressions; wherein he flowed with that &quot;&#39; facility, that sometimes it was. necessary he should &quot;be stopped: <i>Sufflaminandus erat, </i>as Augustus said &quot;of Haterius. His wit was in bis own power; &#39;* would the rule of it had been so too! Many times &quot;he fell into those things which could not escape &#187;.&#39; laughter; as when he said in the person of Caesar, &quot;one speaking to him,</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633308656959 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR12'></a>
<div id='block.27.1.0.box.139.175.857.1384.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR12.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.27.1.1.box.219.864.403.29.q.60'>&quot;Caesar, thou dost me wrong.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR12.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.27.1.2.box.146.928.221.38.q.70'>&quot;He replied:</p>
<a id='GBS.PR12.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.27.1.3.box.219.996.617.30.q.60'>&quot;Caesar did never wrong, but with just cause.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR12.w.1.4.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.27.1.4.box.143.1054.853.140.q.60'>&quot;and such like, which were ridiculous. But he rer &#39;.&#39; deemed his vices with his virtues: there was ever &quot;more in him to be praised than to be pardoned.&quot;</p>
<a id='GBS.PR12.w.1.5.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.27.1.5.box.140.1208.854.237.q.60'>As for the passage which he mentions out of Shakspeare, there is somewhat like it in <i>Julius C&lt;esar, </i>but without the absurdity; nor did I ever meet with it in any edition that I have seen, as quoted by Mr. Jonson.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR12.w.1.6.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.27.1.6.box.144.1467.848.92.q.60'>. Besides his plays in this edition, there are two or three ascribed to him by Mr. Langbaine, which I<a id='GBS.PR13.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.28.1.0.box.79.190.844.454.q.60'>
have never seen, and know nothing of. He writ likewise <i>Venus and ddonis, </i>and <i>Tarquin and Lucrccc, </i>in stanzas which have been printed in a late collection of poems. As to the character given of him by Ben Jonson, there, is a good deal true in it: but I believe it may be as well expressed by what Horace says of the first Romans who wrote tragedy upon the Greek models, (or indeed translated them,) in his epistle to Augustus:</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633309851650 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR13'></a>
<div id='block.28.1.0.box.78.190.854.1395.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR13.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.28.1.1.box.146.671.429.24.q.80'>&quot;natura sublimis &amp; acer:</p>
<a id='GBS.PR13.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body gtxt_lineated' id='para.28.1.2.box.146.716.673.76.q.60'>&quot;Nam spirat tragicuin satis, &amp; feliciter audet, <br/>&quot;Sed turpem putat in chaitis metuitque lituram.&quot; <br/></p>
<a id='GBS.PR13.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.28.1.3.box.78.818.845.248.q.60'>As I have not proposed to myself to enter into a large and complete criticism upon Shakspeare&#39;s works, so I will only take the liberty, with all due submission to the judgment of others, to observe some of thosi things I have been pleased with in looking him over.&#39;</p>
<a id='GBS.PR13.w.1.4.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.28.1.4.box.79.1079.853.506.q.60'>His plays are properly to be distinguished only intd comedies and tragedies. Those which are called histories, and even some of his comedies, are really tragedies, with a run or mixture of comedy amongst them. That way of tragi-comedy was the common mistake of that age, and is indeed become so agreeable to the English taste, that though the severer cri* tics- among us cannot bear it, yet the generality of our audiences seem to be better pleased with it than with an exact tragedy. <i>The Merry Wives of Windsor, The&quot; </i><a id='GBS.PR14.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.29.1.0.box.150.180.869.1391.q.60'>
<i>Comedy of Errort, </i>and <i>The Taming of a Shrew, </i>are all pure comedy; the rest, however they are called, have something of both kinds. It is not very easy to determine which way of writing he was most excellent in. There is certainly a great deal of entertainment in his comical humours; and though they did not then strike at all ranks of people, as the satire of the present age has taken the liberty to do, yet there is a pleasing and a well-distinguished variety in those characters which he thought fit to meddle with. Falstaff is allowed by every body to be a masterpiece; the character is always well sustained, though drawn out into the length of three plays; and even the account of his death, given by his old landlady Mrs. Quickly, in the first act of <i>Henry the Fifth, </i>though it be extremely natural, is yet as diverting as any part of his life. If there be any fault in the draught he has made of this lewd old fellow, it is, that though he has made him a thief, lying, cowardly, vain-glorious, and in short every way vicious, yet he has given him so much wit as to make him almost too agreeable<i>; </i>and I do not know whether some people have not, in remembrance of the diversion he had formerly afforded them, been sorry to see his friend Hal use him so scurvily, when he come* to the crown in the end of <i>The Second Part of&#39; Henry the Fourth. </i>Amongst other extravagancies, in <i>The </i></span><a id='GBS.PR15.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.30.1.0.box.77.199.867.1399.q.60'>
<i>Merry Wives of Windsor, </i>he has made him a deerstealer, that he might at the same time remember his Warwickshire prosecutor, under the name of Justice Shallow; he has given him very near the same coat of arms which Dugdale, in his <i>Antiquities </i>of that county, describes for a family there, and makes the Welsh parson descant very pleasantly upon them. That whole play is admirable; the humours are various and well opposed<i>; </i>the main design, which is to cure Ford of his unreasonable jealousy, is extremely well conducted. In <i>Twelfth-Night </i>there is something singularly ridiculous and pleasant in the fantastical steward Malvolio. The parasite and the vainglorious in Parolles, in <i>All&#39;s Well that Ends Well, </i>is as good as any thing of that kind in <i>P/autus </i>or <i>Terence. </i>Petruchio, in <i>The Taming of the Shrew, </i>is an uncommon piece of humour. The conversation of Benedick and Beatrice, in <i>Much Ado about Nothing, </i>and &#187;f Rosalind, in <i>As you like it, </i>have much wit and sprightliness all along. His clowns, without which character there was hardly any play writ in that time, are all very entertaining: and, I believe, Thersites in <i>Troilus and Cressida, </i>and Apemantus in <i>Timon, </i>will be allowed to be master-pieces of ill nature, and satirical snarling. To these I might add, that incomparable character &#39;of Shylock the Jew, in <i>The Merchant of Venice; </i>but though we have seen that play re</span><a id='GBS.PR16.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.31.1.0.box.157.197.867.1185.q.60'>ceived and acted as a comedy, and the part of the Jew performed by an excellent comedian, yet I cannot but think it was designed tragically by the author. There appears in it such a deadly spirit of revenge, such a savage fierceness and fellness, and such a bloody designation of cruelty and mischief, as cannot agree either with the style or characters of comedy. The play itself, take it altogether, seems to me to be one of the most finished of any of Shakspeare&#39;s. The tale indeed, in that part relating to the caskets, and the extravagant and unusual kind of bond given by Antonio, is too much removed from the rules of probability; but taking the fact for granted, we must allow it to be very beautifully written. There is something in the friendship of Antonio to Bassanio <i>very </i>.great, generous, and tender. The whole fourth act (supposing, as I said, the fact to be probable) is extremely fine. But there are two passages that deserve a particular notice. The first is, what Portia &#8226;says in praise of mercy, and the other on the power of music. The melancholy of Jaques, in <i>As you like it, </i>is .as singular and odd as it is diverting. And if .what Horace says be true&#8212;</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633311141007 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR14'></a>
<div id='block.29.1.0.box.150.180.869.1391.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633311904574 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR15'></a>
<div id='block.30.1.0.box.77.199.867.1399.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633312725277 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR16'></a>
<div id='block.31.1.0.box.157.197.867.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR16.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.31.1.1.box.241.1421.555.31.q.80'>&quot;Difficile est proprie communia dicere,&quot;</p>
<a id='GBS.PR16.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.31.1.2.box.157.1492.867.94.q.60'>it will be a hard task for any one to go beyond him in the description of the several degi ees and ages of<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.32.1.0.box.81.195.839.90.q.60'>
man&#39;s life, though the thought be old, and common enough.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633313433892 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR17'></a>
<div id='block.32.1.0.box.81.195.839.1428.q.50' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.1.box.147.325.418.31.q.70'>&quot;All the world&#39;s a stage,</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.2.box.144.371.645.31.q.70'>&quot;And all the men and women merely players;</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.3.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.3.box.145.416.601.30.q.70'>&quot;They have their exits and their entrances,</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.4.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.4.box.146.463.632.30.q.70'>&quot;And one man in his time plays many parts,</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.5.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.5.box.146.507.672.30.q.60'>&quot;His acts being seven ages. At first, the infant,</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.6.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.6.box.146.552.588.31.q.60'>&quot;Mewling and puking in the nurse&#39;s arms:</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.7.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.7.box.145.598.712.31.q.60'>&quot;And then, the whining school-boy with his satchel,</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.8.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.8.box.146.644.647.31.q.60'>&quot;And shining morning face, creeping like snail</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.9.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.9.box.146.689.621.30.q.60'>&#9632; Unwillingly to school. And then, the lover</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.10.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.10.box.144.735.573.29.q.60'>&#9632; Sighing like furnace, with a woful ballad</p>
<a id='GBS.PR17.w.1.11.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.32.1.11.box.117.778.770.845.q.50'>&quot;Made to his mistress&#39;eye-brow. Then, a soldier; &quot;Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard, &quot;Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel, &quot;Seeking the bubble reputation &quot;Ev&#39;n in the cannon&#39;s mouth. And then, the justice; &quot;In fair round belly, with good capon lin&#39;d, &quot;With eyes severe, and beard of formal cut, &quot;Full of wise saws and modern instances; &quot;And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts &quot;Into the lean and slipper&#39;d pantaloon; &quot;With spectacles on nose, and pouch on side; &quot;His youthful hose, well sav&#39;d, a world too wide &quot;For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice, &quot;Turning again tow&#39;rd childish treble, pipes &quot;And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all, &quot;That ends this strange eventful history, &quot;Is second childishness, and mere oblivion; &quot;Saus teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans every thing.&quot; VOL, i. c</p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633314282750 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR18'></a>
<div id='block.33.1.0.box.157.197.856.301.q.60' class='gtxt_body' style='margin-bottom: 1.5em;'>
<a id='GBS.PR18.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.33.1.0.box.157.197.856.301.q.60'>His images are indeed every where so lively, that the thing he would represent stands full before you, and you possess every part of it. I will venture to point out one more, which is, I think, as strong and as uncommon as any thing I ever saw; it is an image of Patience. Speaking of a maid in love, he says,</p>
</div>
<div id='block.33.2.0.box.370.529.326.29.q.60' class='gtxt_body' style='margin-bottom: 1.5em;'>
<a id='GBS.PR18.w.2.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-align:center;' id='para.33.2.0.box.370.529.326.29.q.60'>&#8226; She never told her love,</p>
</div>
<div id='block.33.3.0.box.162.574.859.1015.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR18.w.3.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body gtxt_lineated' id='para.33.3.0.box.237.574.692.165.q.40'>&quot;But let concealment, like a worm i&#39; th&#39; bud, <br/>&quot;Feed on her damask cheek: she pin&#39;d in thought, <br/>&quot;And sate like <i>Patience </i>on a monument, <br/>&quot;Smiling at <i>Grief.&quot; </i><br/></p>
<a id='GBS.PR18.w.3.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.33.3.1.box.162.770.859.715.q.60'>What an image is here given! and what a task would it have been for the greatest masters of Greece and Rome to have expressed the passions designed by this sketch of statuary! The style of his comedy is, in general, natural to the characters, and easy in itself; and the wit most commonly sprightly and pleasing, except in those places where he runs into doggrel rhymes, as in <i>The Comedy of Errors, </i>and some other plays. As for his jingling sometimes, and playing upon words, it was the common vice of the age he lived in; and if we find it in the pulpit, made use of as an ornament to the sermons of some of the gravest divines of those times, perhaps it may not be thought too light for the stage.</p>
<a id='GBS.PR18.w.3.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.33.3.2.box.166.1498.850.91.q.60'>But certainly the greatness of this author&#39;s genius does no where so much appear, as where he gives his<a id='GBS.PR19.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.34.1.0.box.66.190.866.1387.q.60'>
imagination an entire loose, and raises his fancy to a flight above mankind, and the limits of the visible world. Such are his attempts in <i>The Tempest, A Midsummer-Night&#39;s Dream, Macbeth, </i>and <i>Hamlet. </i>Of these, <i>The Tempest, </i>however it comes to be placed the first by the publishers of his works, can never have been the first written by him: it seems to me as perfect in its kind, as almost any thing we have of his. One may observe, that the unities are kept here, with an exactness uncommon to the liberties of his writing<i>; </i>though that was what, I suppose, he valued himself least upon, since his excellencies were all of another kind. I am very sensible that he does, in this play, depart too much from that likeness to truth which ought to be observed in these sort of writings; yet he does it so very finely, that one is easily drawn in to have more faith for his sake, than reason does well allow of. His magic has something in it very solemn, and very poetical; and that extravagant character of Caliban is mighty well sustained, shews a wonderful invention in the author, who could strike out such a particular wild image, and is certainly one of the finest and most uncommon grotesques that ever was seen. The observation which, I have been informed, three very great men concurred in making upon this part, was extremely just; that <i>Shakspcare had not only found out a new character in his </i></span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633315058069 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR19'></a>
<div id='block.34.1.0.box.66.190.866.1387.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633316080272 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR20'></a>
<div id='block.35.1.0.box.159.189.875.1388.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR20.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.35.1.0.box.159.189.857.93.q.70'>Caliban, <i>but had also devised and adapted a new manner of language for that character. </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR20.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' style='text-indent:1em;' id='para.35.1.1.box.161.291.873.1286.q.60'>It is the same magic that raises the Fairies in <i>A Midsummer-Night&#39;s Dream, </i>the Witches in <i>Macbeth, </i>and the Ghost in <i>Hamlet, </i>with thoughts and language so proper to the parts they sustain, and so peculiar to the talent of this writer. But of the two last of these plays I shall have occasion to take notice, among the tragedies of Mr. Shakspeare. If one undertook to examine the greatest part of these by those rules which are established by Aristotle, and taken from the model of the Grecian stage, it would be no very hard task to find a great many faults<i>; </i>but as Shakspeare lived under a kind of mere light of nature, and had never been made acquainted with the regularity of those written precepts, so it would be hard to judge him by a law he knew nothing of. We are to consider him <i>its </i>a man that lived in a state of almost universal licence and ignorance: there was no established judge, but every one took the liberty to write according to the dictates of his own fancy. When one considers that there is not one play before him of a reputation good enough to entitle it to an appearance on the present stage, it cannot but be a matter of great wonder that he should advance dramatic poetry so far as he did. The fable is what is generally placed the first, among those that are reckoned the constituent part9<a id='GBS.PR21.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.36.1.0.box.69.217.877.1391.q.60'>
of a tragic or heroic poem; not, perhaps, as it is the most difficult or beautiful, but as it is the first pro-&gt; perly to be thought of in the contrivance and course of the whole; and with the fable ought to be considered the fit disposition, order, and conduct, of its se&#187; veral parts. As it is not in this province of the drama that the strength and mastery of Shakspeare lay, so I shall not undertake the tedious and ill-natured trouble to point out the several faults he was guilty of in it. His tales were seldom invented, but rather taken either from the true history, or novels and ro* mances: and he commonly made use of them in that order, with those incidents, and that extent of time, in which he found them in the authors from whence he borrowed them. So <i>The Winter&#39;s Tale, </i>which is taken from an old book, called <i>The Delectable History of Dorastus and Faxvnia, </i>contains the space of sixteen or seventeen years, and the scene is sometimes laid in Bohemia, and sometimes in Sicily, according to the original order of the story. Almost all his historical plays comprehend a great length of time, and very different and distinct places: and in his <i>Antony and Cleopatra, </i>the scene travels over the greatest part of the Roman empire. But in recompence for his carelessness in this point, when he comes to another part of the drama, <i>the manners of his characters, in acting or tpeaking what is proper for them, and fit to be shown </i></span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633316912005 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR21'></a>
<div id='block.36.1.0.box.69.217.877.1391.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633319622730 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR22'></a>
<div id='block.37.1.0.box.148.213.886.1390.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR22.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.37.1.0.box.148.213.886.1390.q.60'><i>by the poet, </i>he may be generally justified, and in very many places greatly commended. For those plays which he has taken from the English or Roman history, let any man compare them, and he will find the character as exact in the poet as the historian. He seems indeed so far from proposing to himself any one action for a subject, that the title very often tells you, it is <i>The Life of King John, King Richard, </i>&amp;c. What can be more agreeable to the idea our historians give <i>of Henry the Sixth, </i>than the picture Shakspeare has drawn of him! His manners are every where exactly the same with the story; one finds him still described with simplicity, passive sanctity, want of courage, weakness of mind, and easy submission to the governance of an imperious wife, or prevailing faction: though at the same time the poet does justice to his good qualities, and moves the pity of his audience for him, by shewing him pious, disinterested, a contemner of the things of this world, and wholly resigned to the severest dispensations of God&#39;s providence. There is a short scene in <i>The Second Part of Henry the Sixth, </i>which I cannot but think admirable in its kind. Cardinal Beaufort, who had murdered the Duke of Gloucester, is shewn in the last agonies on his death-bed, with the good king praying over him. There is so much terror in one, so much tenderness and moving piety in the other, as must touch<a id='GBS.PR23.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.38.1.0.box.77.198.862.1396.q.60'>
any one who is capable either of fear or pity. In his <i>Henry the Eighth, </i>that prince is drawn with that greatness of mind, and all those good qualities which are attributed to him in any account of his reign. If his faults are not shown in an equal degree, and the shades in this picture do not bear a just proportion to the lights, it is not that the artist wanted either colours or skill in the disposition of them; but the truth, I believe, might be, that he forbore doing it out of regard to queen Elizabeth, since it could have been no very great respect to the memory of his mistress to have exposed some certain parts of her father&#39;s life upon the stage. He has dealt much more freely with the minister of that great king ; and certainly nothing was ever more justly wiitten than the character of Cardinal Wolsey. He has shewn him insolent in his prosperity ; and yet, by a wonderful address, he makes his fall and ruin the subject of general compassion. The whole man, with his vices and virtues, is finely and exactly described in the second scene of the fourth act. The distresses likewise of Queen Katharine, in this play, are very movingly touched<i>; </i>and though the art of the poet has screened King Henry from any gross imputation of injustice, yet one is inclined to wish the Queen had met with a fortune more worthy of her birth and virtue. Nor are the manners, proper to the persons represented, less justly observed, in</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633320599615 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR23'></a>
<div id='block.38.1.0.box.77.198.862.1396.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633321766234 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR24'></a>
<div id='block.39.1.0.box.145.189.862.1392.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR24.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.39.1.0.box.145.189.862.1392.q.60'>those characters taken from the Roman history; and of this, the fierceness and impatience of Coriolanus, his courage and disdain of the common people, the virtue and philosophical temper of Brutus, and the irregular greatness of mind in M. Antony, are beautiful proofs. For the two last especially, you find them exactly as they are described by Plutarch, from whom certainly Shakspeare copied them. He has indeed followed his original pretty close, and taken in several little incidents that might have been spared in a play. But, as I hinted before, his design seems most commonly rather to describe those great men in the several fortunes and accidents of their lives, than to take any single great action, and form his work simply upon that. However, there are some of his pieces where the fable is founded upon one action only. Such are more especially, <i>Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet, </i>and <i>Othello. </i>The design in <i>Romeo and Juliet </i>is plainly the punishment of their two families, for the unreasonable feuds and animosities that had been so long kept up between them, and occasioned the effusion of so much blood. In the management of this story, he has shown something wonderfully tender and passionate in the love-part, and very pitiful in the distress. <i>Hamlet </i>is founded on much the same tale with the <i>Electra of Sophocles. </i>In each of them a young prince is engaged to revenge the death of his father,.their mothers are<a id='GBS.PR25.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.40.1.0.box.81.199.853.1389.q.60'>
equally guilty, are both concerned in the murder of their husbands, and are afterwards married to the murderers. There is in the first part of the Greek tragedy something very moving in the grief of Electra, but, as Mr. Dacier has observed, there is something very unnatutal and shocking in the manners he has given that princess and Orestes in the latter part. Orestes imbrues his hands in the blood of his own mother; and that barbarous action is performed, though not immediately upon the stage, yet so near, that the audience hear Clytemnestra crying out to iEgysthus for help, and to her son for mercy: while Electra her daughter, and a princess (both of them characters that ought to have appeared with more decency), stands upon the stage, and encourages her brother in the parricide. What horror does this not raise! Clytemnestra was a wicked woman, and had deserved to die; nay, in the truth of the story, she was killed by her own son; but to represent an action of this kind on the stage is certainly an offence against those rules of manners proper to the persons, that ought to be observed there. On the contrary, let us only look a little on the conduct of Shakspeare. Hamlet is represented with the same piety towards his father, and resolution to revenge his death, as Orestes; he has the same abhorrence for his mother&#39;s guilt, which, to provoke him the more, is heightened by in .</span><a id='GBS.PR26.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.41.1.0.box.156.196.856.248.q.60'>
cest: but it is with wonderful art and justness of judgment, that the poet restrains him from doing violence to his mother. To prevent any thing of that kind, he makes his father&#39;s Ghost forbid that part of his yengeance:</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633322736377 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR25'></a>
<div id='block.40.1.0.box.81.199.853.1389.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633324387016 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR26'></a>
<div id='block.41.1.0.box.155.196.857.1398.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR26.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body gtxt_lineated' id='para.41.1.1.box.264.471.676.212.q.50'>&quot;But howsoever thou pursu&#39;st this act, <br/>&quot;Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive <br/>&quot;Against thy mother aught; leave her to heav&#39;n, <br/>&quot;And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge, <br/>&quot;To prick and sting her.&quot; <br/></p>
<a id='GBS.PR26.w.1.2.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.41.1.2.box.155.722.855.872.q.60'>This is to distinguish rightly between <i>horror </i>and <i>terror. </i>The latter is a proper passion of tragedy, but the former ought always to be carefully avoided. And certainly no dramatic writer ever succeeded better in raising <i>terror </i>in the minds of an audience than Shakspeare has done. The whole tragedy of <i>Macbeth, </i>but more especially the scene where the King is murdered, in the second act, as well as this play, is a noble proof of that manly spirit with which he writ; and both show how powerful he was, in giving the strongest motions to our souls that they are capable of. I cannot leave <i>Hamlet, </i>without taking notice of the advantage with which we have seen this master-piece of Shakspeare distinguish itself upon the stage, by Mr. Betterton&#39;s fine performance of that part. A man, who, though he had no other good qualities, as he has a great many, must have made his way into the<a id='GBS.PR27.w.1.0.0'></a><span class='gtxt_body' id='para.42.1.0.box.67.212.852.712.q.60'>
esteem of all men of letters, by this only excellency. No man is better acquainted with Shakspeare&#39;s manner of expression; and indeed he has studied him so well, and is so much a master of him, that whatever part of his he performs, he does it as if it had been written on purpose for him, and that the author had exactly conceived it as he plays it. I must own a particular obligation to him, for the most considerable part of the passages relating to this life, which I have here transmitted to the public; his veneration for the memory of Shakspeare having engaged him to make a journey into &#39;Warwickshire, on purpose to gather up what remains he could of a name for which he had so great a veneration.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633325142264 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR27'></a>
<div id='block.42.1.0.box.67.212.852.712.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
</div>
</div>
<!-- Content from Google Book Search, generated at 1334633325913929 -->
<div class='flow' style=''>
<a class='page'  id='GBS.PR28'></a>
<div id='block.43.1.0.box.161.215.865.1384.q.60' class='gtxt_body'>
<a id='GBS.PR28.w.1.0.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.43.1.0.box.170.215.856.146.q.40'><i>To the foregoing Account </i><span style='font-variant:small-caps;'>O/&#39;shakspeare&#39;s </span><span style='font-variant:small-caps;'>Life, </span><i>I have only one Passage to add, which Mr. Pope related, as communicated to him by Mr. Rowe. </i></p>
<a id='GBS.PR28.w.1.1.0'></a><p class='gtxt_body' id='para.43.1.1.box.161.414.861.1185.q.60'>IN the time of Elizabeth, coaches being yet uncommon, and hired coaches not at all in use, those who were too proud, too tender, or too idle to walk, went on horseback to any distant business or diversion. Many came on horseback to the play; and when Shakspeare fled to London from the terror of a criminal prosecution, his first expedient was to wait at the door of the playhouse, and hold the horses of those that had no servants, that they might be ready again after the performance. In this office he became so conspicuous for his care and readiness, that in a short time every man as he alighted called for Will. Shakspeare, and scarcely any other waiter was trusted with a horse while Will. Shakspeare could be had. This was the first dawn of better fortune. Shakspeare, finding more horses put into his hand than he could hold, hired boys to wait under his inspection, who, when Will. Shakspeare was summoned, were immediately to present themselves, 7 <i>am Shakspeare&#39;s boy, Sir. </i>In time Shakspeare found higher employment: but as long as the practice of riding to the playhouse continued, the waiters that held the horses retained the appellation of <i>Shakspeare&#39;s boys. </i><span style='font-variant:small-caps;'>Johnson. </span></p>
</div>
</div>

</body></html>